  
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
 
☒  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024
OR
 
☐  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the transition period from                 to                
Commission File No. 1-10765
 
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Delaware  23-2077891
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)  (I.R.S. Employer
Identification Number)
  
UNIVERSAL CORPORATE CENTER   
367 South Gulph Road
P.O. Box 61558
King of Prussia, Pennsylvania  19406-0958
(Address of principal executive offices)  (Zip Code)
 
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (610) 768-3300
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Class B Common Stock, $0.01 par value UHS New York Stock Exchange
 
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
Class D Common Stock, $.01 par value
(Title of each Class)
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes  ☒     No  ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.    Yes  ☐     No  ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for 
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  ☒     No  ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).    Yes  ☒     No  ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the 
definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer”, “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 
       
Large accelerated filer  ☒   Accelerated filer   ☐
    
Non-accelerated filer  ☐   Smaller reporting company   ☐
    
     Emerging growth company   ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided  
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of  
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report.  ☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously  
issued financial statements. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during  
the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes  ☐     No  ☒
The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates at June 30, 2024 was $ 10.6 billion. (For the purpose of this calculation, it was assumed that Class A, Class C, and Class D Common Stock,  
which are not traded but are convertible share-for-share into Class B Common Stock, have the same market value as Class B Common Stock. Also, for purposes of this calculation only, all directors are  
deemed to be affiliates.)
The number of shares of the registrant’s Class A Common Stock, $.01 par value, Class B Common Stock, $.01 par value, Class C Common Stock, $.01 par value, and Class D Common Stock, $.01 par value,  
outstanding as  of January 31, 2025, were 6,576,475 ; 57,751,199 ; 661,688  and 12,614 , respectively.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for our 2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after 
December 31, 2024 (incorporated by reference under Part III).
 

 UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC.
2024 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
PART I  
Item 1  Business 1
Item 1A  Risk Factors 14
Item 1B  Unresolved Staff Comments 26
Item 1C  Cybersecurity 26
Item 2  Properties 27
Item 3  Legal Proceedings 36
Item 4  Mine Safety Disclosure 36
  
PART II  
Item 5  Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37
Item 6  [RESERVED] 38
Item 7  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39
Item 7A  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 75
Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 76
Item 9  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 76
Item 9A  Controls and Procedures 76
Item 9B  Other Information 77
Item 9C  Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 77
    
  
PART III  
Item 10  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 78
Item 11  Executive Compensation 78
Item 12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 78
Item 13  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 78
Item 14  Principal Accountant Fees and Services 78
  
PART IV  
Item 15  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 79
Item 16  Form 10-K Summary 85
    
SIGNATURES 86
 
This Annual Report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31, 2024. This Annual Report modifies and supersedes documents filed prior to 
this Annual Report. Information that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) in the future will automatically update and 
supersede information contained in this Annual Report.
In this Annual Report, “we,” “us,” “our” “UHS” and the “Company” refer to Universal Health Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries. UHS is a 
registered trademark of UHS of Delaware, Inc., the management company for, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Universal Health Services, Inc. Universal 
Health Services, Inc. is a holding company and operates through its subsidiaries including its management company, UHS of Delaware, Inc. All healthcare 
and management operations are conducted by subsidiaries of Universal Health Services, Inc. To the extent any reference to “UHS” or “UHS facilities” in 
this report including letters, narratives or other forms contained herein relates to our healthcare or management operations it is referring to Universal Health 
Services, Inc.’s subsidiaries including UHS of Delaware, Inc. Further, the terms “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” in such context similarly refer to the 
operations of Universal Health Services Inc.’s subsidiaries including UHS of Delaware, Inc. Any reference to employees or employment contained herein 
refers to employment with or employees of the subsidiaries of Universal Health Services, Inc. including UHS of Delaware, Inc.
 
 

 
1 PART I
ITEM 1.  Business
Our principal business is owning and operating, through our subsidiaries, acute care hospitals and outpatient facilities and behavioral health care 
facilities.  
As of February 26, 2025, we owned and/or operated 359 inpatient facilities and 60 outpatient and other facilities, including the following, located in 
39 states, Washington, D.C., the United Kingdom and Puerto Rico:
Acute care facilities located in the U.S.:
• 28 inpatient acute care hospitals;
• 33 free-standing emergency departments, and;
• 10 outpatient centers & 1 surgical hospital.
Behavioral health care facilities (331 inpatient facilities and 16 outpatient facilities): 
Located in the U.S.:
• 181 inpatient behavioral health care facilities, and;
• 14 outpatient behavioral health care facilities. 
Located in the U.K.:
• 147 inpatient behavioral health care facilities, and;
• 2 outpatient behavioral health care facilities.
Located in Puerto Rico:
• 3 inpatient behavioral health care facilities.
Net revenues from our acute care hospitals, outpatient facilities and commercial health insurer accounted for 56% of our consolidated net revenues 
during 2024 and 57% during 2023. Net revenues from our behavioral health care facilities and commercial health insurer accounted for 44% of our 
consolidated net revenues during 2024 and 43% during 2023.       
Our behavioral health care facilities located in the U.K. generated net revenues of approximately $880 million in 2024 and $761 million in 2023. 
Total assets at our U.K. behavioral health care facilities were approximately $1.358 billion as of December 31, 2024 and $1.327 billion as of December 31, 
2023.      
Services provided by our hospitals include general and specialty surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics, emergency room care, radiology, oncology, 
diagnostic care, coronary care, pediatric services, pharmacy services and/or behavioral health services. We provide capital resources as well as a variety of 
management services to our facilities, including central purchasing, information services, finance and control systems, facilities planning, physician 
recruitment services, administrative personnel management, marketing and public relations.
Available Information
We are a Delaware corporation that was organized in 1979. Our principal executive offices are located at Universal Corporate Center, 367 South 
Gulph Road, P.O. Box 61558, King of Prussia, PA 19406. Our telephone number is (610) 768-3300.
Our website is located at www.uhs.com. Copies of our annual, quarterly and current reports that we file with the SEC, and any amendments to those 
reports, are available free of charge on our website. Our filings are also available to the public at the website maintained by the SEC, www.sec.gov. The 
information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report. Our Board of Directors’ committee charters (Audit Committee, 
Compensation Committee, Nominating & Governance Committee and Quality and Compliance Committee), Code of Business Conduct and Corporate 
Standards applicable to all employees, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Conduct, Corporate 
Compliance Manual and Compliance Policies and Procedures are available free of charge on our website. Copies of such reports and charters are available 
in print to any stockholder who makes a request. Such requests should be made to our Secretary at our King of Prussia, PA corporate headquarters. We 
intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K relating to amendments to or waivers of any provision of our Code of Ethics for 
Senior Financial Officers by promptly posting this information on our website.
In accordance with Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, we submitted our CEO’s certification to the 
New York Stock Exchange in 2024. Additionally, contained in Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are our CEO’s and CFO’s 
certifications regarding the quality of our public disclosures under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

 
2Our Mission
Our company mission is:
To provide superior quality healthcare services that 
PATIENTS recommend to families and friends, 
PHYSICIANS prefer for their patients, 
PURCHASERS select for their clients, 
EMPLOYEES are proud of, and 
INVESTORS seek for long-term returns.
 
To achieve this, we have a commitment to:
• service excellence
• continuous improvement in measurable ways
• employee development
• ethical and fair treatment of all
• teamwork
• compassion
• innovation in service delivery
Business Strategy
We believe community-based hospitals will remain the focal point of the healthcare delivery network and we are committed to a philosophy of self-
determination for both the company and our hospitals.
Acquisition of Additional Hospitals.  We selectively seek opportunities to expand our base of operations by acquiring, constructing or leasing 
additional hospital facilities. We are committed to a program of rational growth around our core businesses, while retaining the missions of the hospitals we 
manage and the communities we serve. Such expansion may provide us with access to new markets and new healthcare delivery capabilities. We also 
continue to examine our facilities and consider divestiture of those facilities that we believe do not have the potential to contribute to our growth or 
operating strategy. In recent years our behavioral health services segment has been focused on efforts to partner with non-UHS acute care hospitals to help 
operate their behavioral health services.  These arrangements include hospital purchases, leased beds and joint venture operating agreements.
Improvement of Operations of Existing Hospitals and Services.  We also seek to increase the operating revenues and profitability of owned 
hospitals by the introduction of new services, improvement of existing services, physician recruitment and the application of financial and operational 
controls.
We are involved in continual development activities for the benefit of our existing facilities. From time-to-time applications are filed with state 
health planning agencies to add new services in existing hospitals in states which require certificates of need, or CONs. Although we expect that some of 
these applications will result in the addition of new facilities or services to our operations, no assurances can be made for ultimate success by us in these 
efforts.
Quality and Efficiency of Services.  Pressures to contain healthcare costs and technological developments allowing more procedures to be 
performed on an outpatient basis have led payers to demand a shift to ambulatory or outpatient care wherever possible. We are responding to this trend by 
emphasizing the expansion of outpatient services. In addition, in response to cost containment pressures, we continue to implement programs at our 
facilities designed to improve financial performance and efficiency while continuing to provide quality care, including more efficient use of professional 
and paraprofessional staff, monitoring and adjusting staffing levels and equipment usage, improving patient management and reporting procedures and 
implementing more efficient billing and collection procedures. In addition, we will continue to emphasize innovation in our response to the rapid changes 
in regulatory trends and market conditions while fulfilling our commitment to patients, physicians, employees, communities and our stockholders.
In addition, our aggressive recruiting of highly qualified physicians and developing provider networks help to establish our facilities as an important 
source of quality healthcare in their respective communities.
Hospital Utilization
We believe that the most important factors relating to the overall utilization of a hospital include the quality and market position of the hospital and 
the number, quality and specialties of physicians providing patient care within the facility. Generally, we believe that the ability of a hospital to meet the 
health care needs of its community is determined by its breadth of services, level of technology, emphasis on quality of care and convenience for patients 
and physicians. Other factors that affect utilization include 

 
3general and local economic conditions, market penetration of managed care programs, the degree of outpatient use, the availability of reimbursement 
programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and demographic changes such as the growth in local populations. Utilization across the industry also is being 
affected by improvements in clinical practice, medical technology and pharmacology. Current industry trends in utilization and occupancy have been 
significantly affected by changes in reimbursement policies of third party payers. We are also unable to predict the extent to which these industry trends 
will continue or accelerate. In addition, our acute care services business is typically subject to certain seasonal fluctuations, such as higher patient volumes 
and net patient service revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year.
Sources of Revenue
We receive payments for services rendered from private insurers, including managed care plans, the federal government under the Medicare 
program, state governments under their respective Medicaid programs and directly from patients. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Sources of Revenue for additional disclosure. Other information related to our revenues, income and other 
operating information for each reporting segment of our business is provided in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment Reporting.
Regulation and Other Factors
Overview: The healthcare industry is subject to numerous laws, regulations and rules including, among others, those related to government 
healthcare participation requirements, various licensure and accreditations, reimbursement for patient services, health information privacy and security 
rules, and Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse provisions (including, but not limited to, federal statutes and regulations prohibiting kickbacks and other 
illegal inducements to potential referral sources, false claims submitted to federal or state health care programs and self-referrals by physicians). Providers 
that are found to have violated any of these laws and regulations may be excluded from participating in government healthcare programs, subjected to 
significant fines or penalties and/or required to repay amounts received from the government for previously billed patient services. Although we believe our
policies, procedures and practices comply with governmental regulations, no assurance can be given that we will not be subjected to additional 
governmental inquiries or actions, or that we would not be faced with sanctions, fines or penalties if so subjected. Even if we were to ultimately prevail, a 
significant governmental inquiry or action under one of the above laws, regulations or rules could have a material adverse impact on us.
Licensing, Certification and Accreditation: All of our U.S. hospitals are subject to compliance with various federal, state and local statutes and 
regulations in the U.S. and receive periodic inspection by state licensing agencies to review standards of medical care, equipment and cleanliness. Our 
hospitals must also comply with the conditions of participation and licensing requirements of federal, state and local health agencies, as well as the 
requirements of municipal building codes, health codes and local fire departments. Various other licenses and permits are also required in order to dispense 
narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate certain equipment.  Our facilities in the United Kingdom are also subject to various 
laws and regulations. 
All of our eligible hospitals have been accredited by The Joint Commission. All of our acute care hospitals and most of our behavioral health centers 
in the U.S. are certified as providers of Medicare and Medicaid services by the appropriate governmental authorities.
If any of our facilities were to lose its Joint Commission accreditation or otherwise lose its certification under the Medicare and Medicaid programs, 
the facility may be unable to receive reimbursement from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and other payers. We believe our facilities are in substantial 
compliance with current applicable federal, state, local and independent review body regulations and standards. The requirements for licensure, 
certification and accreditation are subject to change and, in order to remain qualified, it may become necessary for us to make changes in our facilities, 
equipment, personnel and services in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on operations.
Certificates of Need: Certain of the states in which we operate hospitals have certificates of need (“CON”) laws as a condition prior to hospital 
capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. Failure to obtain necessary state approval can result in our 
inability to complete an acquisition, expansion or replacement, the imposition of civil or, in some cases, criminal sanctions, the inability to receive 
Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement or the revocation of a facility’s license, which could harm our business. In addition, significant CON reforms have 
been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review 
requirements. In the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes 
upon our operations.
Conversion Legislation: Many states have enacted or are considering enacting laws affecting the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to 
for-profit entities. These laws generally require prior approval from the attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. In addition, 
attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over these transactions. Although the level of 
government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction 
in which a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility 

 
4to a for-profit entity. The adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation and the increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions may limit our 
ability to grow through acquisitions of not-for-profit hospitals.
Utilization Review: Federal regulations require that admissions and utilization of facilities by Medicare and Medicaid patients must be reviewed in 
order to ensure efficient utilization of facilities and services. The law and regulations require Quality Improvement Organizations (“QIOs”) to review the 
appropriateness of Medicare and Medicaid patient admissions and discharges, the quality of care provided, the validity of diagnosis related group (“DRG”) 
classifications and the appropriateness of cases of extraordinary length of stay. QIOs may deny payment for services provided, assess fines and also have 
the authority to recommend to the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) that a provider that is in substantial non-compliance with the 
standards of the QIO be excluded from participating in the Medicare program. We have contracted with QIOs in each state where we do business to 
perform the required reviews.
Audits: Most hospitals are subject to federal audits to validate the accuracy of Medicare and Medicaid program submitted claims. If these audits 
identify overpayments, we could be required to pay a substantial rebate of prior years’ payments subject to various administrative appeal rights. The federal 
government contracts with third-party “recovery audit contractors” (“RACs”) and “Medicaid integrity contractors” (“MICs”), on a contingent fee basis, to 
audit the propriety of payments to Medicare and Medicaid providers. Similarly, Medicare zone program integrity contractors (“ZPICs”) target claims for 
potential fraud and abuse. Additionally, Medicare administrative contractors (“MACs”) must ensure they pay the right amount for covered and correctly 
coded services rendered to eligible beneficiaries by legitimate providers. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) consolidated many of 
these Medicare and Medicaid program integrity functions into new unified program integrity contractors (“UPICs”), though it remains unclear what effect, 
if any, this consolidation may have. We have undergone claims audits related to our receipt of federal healthcare payments during the last three years, the 
results of which have not required material adjustments to our consolidated results of operations. However, potential liability from future federal or state 
audits could ultimately exceed established reserves, and any excess could potentially be substantial. Further, Medicare and Medicaid regulations also 
provide for withholding Medicare and Medicaid overpayments in certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our cash flow.
Self-Referral and Anti-Kickback Legislation
The Stark Law: The Social Security Act includes a provision commonly known as the “Stark Law.” This law prohibits physicians from referring 
Medicare and Medicaid patients to entities with which they or any of their immediate family members have a financial relationship, unless an exception is 
met. These types of referrals are known as “self-referrals.” Medicare may deny payment for all services related to a prohibited referral and a hospital that 
has billed for prohibited services may be obligated to refund the amounts collected.  In addition, sanctions for violation of the Stark Law may include civil 
penalties or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. There are a number of exceptions to the self-referral prohibition, including an exception 
for a physician’s ownership interest in an entire hospital as opposed to an ownership interest in a hospital department unit, service or subpart. However, 
federal laws and regulations now limit the ability of hospitals relying on this exception to expand aggregate physician ownership interest or to expand 
certain hospital facilities. This regulation also places a number of compliance requirements on physician-owned hospitals related to reporting of ownership 
interest. There are also exceptions for many of the customary financial arrangements between physicians and providers, including employment contracts, 
leases and recruitment agreements that adhere to certain enumerated requirements.  CMS issued a final rule in 2020 that created a new Stark exception for 
value-based models. Although the final regulations provide exceptions to the Stark Law, there may remain regulatory risks for participating hospitals, as 
well as financial and operational risks.
We monitor all aspects of our business and have developed a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that is designed to meet or exceed 
applicable federal guidelines and industry standards. Nonetheless, because the law in this area is complex and constantly evolving, there can be no 
assurance that federal regulatory authorities will not determine that any of our arrangements with physicians violate the Stark Law.
Anti-kickback Statute: A provision of the Social Security Act known as the “anti-kickback statute” prohibits healthcare providers and others from 
directly or indirectly soliciting, receiving, offering or paying money or other remuneration to other individuals and entities in return for using, referring, 
ordering, recommending or arranging for such referrals or orders of services or other items covered by a federal or state health care program. However, 
changes to the anti-kickback statute have reduced the intent required for violation; one is no longer required to have actual knowledge or specific intent to 
commit a violation of the anti-kickback statute in order to be found in violation of such law.
The anti-kickback statute contains certain exceptions, and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services 
(“OIG”) has issued regulations that provide for “safe harbors,” from the federal anti-kickback statute for various activities. These activities, which must 
meet certain requirements, include (but are not limited to) the following: investment interests, space rental, equipment rental, practitioner recruitment, 
personnel services and management contracts, sale of practice, referral services, warranties, discounts, employees, group purchasing organizations, waiver 
of beneficiary coinsurance and deductible amounts, managed care arrangements, obstetrical malpractice insurance subsidies, investments in group 
practices, freestanding surgery centers, donation of technology for electronic health records and referral agreements for specialty services. In 2020, the OIG 

 
5issued a final rule that established an anti-kickback statute safe harbor for value based models. Although the final regulations provide safe harbors, there 
may remain regulatory risks for participating hospitals, as well as financial and operational risks.  The fact that conduct or a business arrangement does not 
fall within a safe harbor or exception does not automatically render the conduct or business arrangement illegal under the anti-kickback statute. However, 
such conduct and business arrangements may lead to increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities.
Although we believe that our arrangements with physicians and other referral sources have been structured to comply with current law and available 
interpretations, there can be no assurance that all arrangements comply with an available safe harbor or that regulatory authorities enforcing these laws will 
determine these financial arrangements do not violate the anti-kickback statute or other applicable laws. Violations of the anti-kickback statute may be 
punished by a criminal fine of up to $100,000 for each violation or imprisonment, however, under 18 U.S.C. Section 3571, this fine may be increased to 
$250,000 for individuals and $500,000 for organizations. Civil money penalties may include fines and damages of up to three times the total amount of the 
remuneration and/or exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid.
Similar State Laws: Many of the states in which we operate have adopted laws that prohibit payments to physicians in exchange for referrals 
similar to the anti-kickback statute and the Stark Law, some of which apply regardless of the source of payment for care. These statutes typically provide 
criminal and civil penalties as well as loss of licensure. In many instances, the state statutes provide that any arrangement falling in a federal safe harbor 
will be immune from scrutiny under the state statutes. However, in most cases, little precedent exists for the interpretation or enforcement of these state 
laws.
These laws and regulations are extremely complex and, in many cases, we don’t have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. It is 
possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety 
or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. A 
determination that we have violated one or more of these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or 
more of these laws (see Item 3. Legal Proceedings), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and 
our business reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be 
adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be.
If we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the Stark Law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be 
subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one 
or more facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. The imposition of such penalties could 
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Federal False Claims Act and Similar State Regulations: A current trend affecting the health care industry is the increased use of the federal 
False Claims Act, and, in particular, actions being brought by individuals on the government’s behalf under the False Claims Act’s qui tam, or 
whistleblower, provisions. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government by alleging that the defendant 
has defrauded the Federal government.
When a defendant is determined by a court of law to have violated the False Claims Act, the defendant may be liable for up to three times the actual 
damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties for each separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the 
False Claims Act. Liability often arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The Fraud 
Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 (“FERA”) amended and expanded the number of actions for which liability may attach under the False Claims Act, 
eliminating requirements that false claims be presented to federal officials or directly involve federal funds. FERA also clarifies that a false claim violation 
occurs upon the knowing retention, as well as the receipt, of overpayments. In addition, recent changes to the anti-kickback statute have made violations of 
that law punishable under the civil False Claims Act. Further, a number of states have adopted their own false claims provisions as well as their own 
whistleblower provisions whereby a private party may file a civil lawsuit on behalf of the state in state court. The False Claims Act require that federal 
healthcare program overpayments be returned within 60 days from the date the overpayment was identified, or by the date any corresponding cost report 
was due, whichever is later. Failure to return an overpayment within this period may result in additional civil False Claims Act liability.
Other Fraud and Abuse Provisions: The Social Security Act also imposes criminal and civil penalties for submitting false claims to Medicare and 
Medicaid. False claims include, but are not limited to, billing for services not rendered, billing for services without prescribed documentation, 
misrepresenting actual services rendered in order to obtain higher reimbursement and cost report fraud. Like the anti-kickback statute, these provisions are 
very broad.
Further, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) broadened the scope of the fraud and abuse laws by adding 
several criminal provisions for health care fraud offenses that apply to all health benefit programs, whether or not payments under such programs are paid 
pursuant to federal programs. HIPAA also introduced enforcement mechanisms to prevent fraud and abuse in Medicare. There are civil penalties for 
prohibited conduct, including, but not limited to billing for medically unnecessary products or services.

 
6HIPAA Administrative Simplification and Privacy Requirements: The administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA, as amended by the 
Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”), require the use of uniform electronic data transmission standards for 
health care claims and payment transactions submitted or received electronically. These provisions are intended to encourage electronic commerce in the 
health care industry. HIPAA also established federal rules protecting the privacy and security of personal health information, including recently proposed 
updates to HIPAA security rule requirements. The privacy and security regulations address the use and disclosure of individual health care information and 
the rights of patients to understand and control how such information is used and disclosed. Violations of HIPAA can result in both criminal and civil fines 
and penalties.
We believe that we are in material compliance with the privacy regulations of HIPAA, as we continue to develop training and revise procedures to 
address ongoing compliance. The HIPAA security regulations require health care providers to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards 
to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of patient information. HITECH has since strengthened certain HIPAA rules regarding the use and 
disclosure of protected health information, extended certain HIPAA provisions to business associates, and created new security breach notification 
requirements. HITECH has also extended the ability to impose civil money penalties on providers not knowing that a HIPAA violation has occurred. We 
believe that we have been in substantial compliance with HIPAA and HITECH requirements to date. HIPAA regulations may result in greater compliance 
requirements for healthcare providers, including obligations to report breaches of unsecured patient data, as well as potential liabilities resulting from the 
actions of parties acting as business associates on our behalf.
Red Flags Rule: In addition, the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) Red Flags Rule requires financial institutions and businesses maintaining 
accounts to address the risk of identity theft. The Red Flag Program Clarification Act of 2010, signed on December 18, 2010, appears to exclude certain 
healthcare providers from the Red Flags Rule, but permits the FTC or relevant agencies to designate additional creditors subject to the Red Flags Rule 
through future rulemaking if the agencies determine that the person in question maintains accounts subject to foreseeable risk of identity theft. Compliance 
with any such future rulemaking may require additional expenditures in the future.
Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005: On July 29, 2005, the Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 was enacted, 
which has the goal of reducing medical errors and increasing patient safety. This legislation establishes a confidential reporting structure in which providers 
can voluntarily report “Patient Safety Work Product” (“PSWP”) to “Patient Safety Organizations” (“PSOs”). Under the system, PSWP is made privileged, 
confidential and legally protected from disclosure. PSWP does not include medical, discharge or billing records or any other original patient or provider 
records but does include information gathered specifically in connection with the reporting of medical errors and improving patient safety. This legislation 
does not preempt state or federal mandatory disclosure laws concerning information that does not constitute PSWP. PSOs are certified by the Secretary of 
the HHS for three-year periods and analyze PSWP, provide feedback to providers and may report non-identifiable PSWP to a database. In addition, PSOs 
are expected to generate patient safety improvement strategies.
Environmental Regulations: Our healthcare operations generate medical waste that must be disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local 
environmental laws, rules and regulations. Infectious waste generators, including hospitals, face substantial penalties for improper disposal of medical 
waste, including civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day of noncompliance, criminal penalties of up to $50,000 per day, imprisonment, and remedial costs. 
In addition, our operations, as well as our purchases and sales of facilities are subject to various other environmental laws, rules and regulations. We 
believe that our disposal of such wastes is in material compliance with all state and federal laws.
Corporate Practice of Medicine: Several states, including Florida, Nevada, California and Texas, have laws and/or regulations that prohibit 
corporations and other entities from employing physicians and practicing medicine for a profit or that prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-
splitting arrangements between health care providers that are designed to induce or encourage the referral of patients to, or the recommendation of, 
particular providers for medical products and services. Possible sanctions for violation of these restrictions include loss of license and civil and criminal 
penalties. In addition, agreements between the corporation and the physician may be considered void and unenforceable. These statutes and/or regulations 
vary from state to state, are often vague and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. We do not expect these state corporate 
practice of medicine proscriptions to significantly affect our operations. Many states have laws and regulations which prohibit payments for referral of 
patients and fee-splitting with physicians. We do not make any such payments or have any such arrangements.
EMTALA: All of our hospitals are subject to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (“EMTALA”). This federal law generally 
requires hospitals with an emergency department that are certified providers under Medicare to conduct a medical screening examination of every person 
who visits the hospital’s emergency room for treatment and, if the patient is suffering from a medical emergency, to either stabilize the patient’s condition 
or transfer the patient to a facility that can better handle the condition. Our obligation to screen and stabilize emergency medical conditions exists 
regardless of a patient’s ability to pay for treatment. There are severe penalties under EMTALA if a hospital fails to screen or appropriately stabilize or 
transfer a patient or if the hospital delays appropriate treatment in order to first inquire about the patient’s ability to pay. Penalties for violations of 
EMTALA include civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. In addition to any liabilities that a hospital may incur 
under EMTALA, an injured patient, the patient’s family or a medical facility that suffers a financial loss as a 

 
7direct result of another hospital’s violation of the law can bring a civil suit against the hospital unrelated to the rights granted under that statute.
The federal government broadly interprets EMTALA to cover situations in which patients do not actually present to a hospital’s emergency room, 
but present for emergency examination or treatment to the hospital’s campus, generally, or to a hospital-based clinic that treats emergency medical 
conditions or are transported in a hospital-owned ambulance, subject to certain exceptions. EMTALA does not generally apply to patients admitted for 
inpatient services; however, CMS has sought industry comments on the potential applicability of EMTALA to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of 
hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively. CMS has not yet issued regulations or guidance in response to that request for comments. The 
government also has expressed its intent to investigate and enforce EMTALA violations actively in the future. We believe that we operate in substantial 
compliance with EMTALA.
Health Care Industry Investigations: We are subject to claims and suits in the ordinary course of business, including those arising from care and 
treatment afforded by our hospitals and are party to various government investigations and litigation. Please see Item 3. Legal Proceedings included herein 
for additional disclosure. In addition, currently, and from time to time, some of our facilities are subjected to inquiries and/or actions and receive notices of 
potential non-compliance of laws and regulations from various federal and state agencies. Providers that are found to have violated these laws and 
regulations may be excluded from participating in government healthcare programs, subjected to potential licensure, certification, and/or accreditation 
revocation, subjected to fines or penalties or required to repay amounts received from the government for previously billed patient services.
We monitor all aspects of our business and have developed a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that is designed to meet or exceed 
applicable federal guidelines and industry standards. Because the law in this area is complex and constantly evolving, governmental investigation or 
litigation may result in interpretations that are inconsistent with industry practices, including ours. Although we believe our policies, procedures and 
practices comply with governmental regulations, no assurance can be given that we will not be subjected to inquiries or actions, or that we will not be faced 
with sanctions, fines or penalties in connection with the investigations. Even if we were to ultimately prevail, the government’s inquiry and/or action in 
connection with these matters could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results.
Our substantial Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental billings may result in heightened scrutiny of our operations. It is possible that 
governmental entities could initiate additional investigations or litigation in the future and that such matters could result in significant penalties as well as 
adverse publicity. It is also possible that our executives and/or managers could be included as targets or witnesses in governmental investigations or 
litigation and/or named as defendants in private litigation.
Revenue Rulings 98-15 and 2004-51: In March 1998 and May 2004, the IRS issued guidance regarding the tax consequences of joint ventures 
between for-profit and not-for-profit hospitals. As a result of the tax rulings, the IRS has proposed, and may in the future propose, to revoke the tax-exempt 
or public charity status of certain not-for-profit entities which participate in such joint ventures or to treat joint venture income as unrelated business taxable 
income to them. The tax rulings have limited development of joint ventures and any adverse determination by the IRS or the courts regarding the tax-
exempt or public charity status of a not-for-profit partner or the characterization of joint venture income as unrelated business taxable income could further 
limit joint venture development with not-for-profit hospitals, and/or require the restructuring of certain existing joint ventures with not-for-profits.
State Rate Review: Some states where we operate hospitals have adopted legislation mandating rate or budget review for hospitals or have adopted 
taxes on hospital revenues, assessments or licensure fees to fund indigent health care within the state. In the aggregate, state rate reviews and indigent tax 
provisions have not materially, adversely affected our results of operations.
Medical Malpractice Tort Law Reform: Medical malpractice tort law has historically been maintained at the state level. All states have laws 
governing medical liability lawsuits. Over half of the states have limits on damages awards. Almost all states have eliminated joint and several liability in 
malpractice lawsuits, and many states have established limits on attorney fees. Many states had bills introduced in their legislative sessions to address 
medical malpractice tort reform. Proposed solutions include enacting limits on non-economic damages, malpractice insurance reform, and gathering lawsuit 
claims data from malpractice insurance companies and the courts for the purpose of assessing the connection between malpractice settlements and premium 
rates. Reform legislation has also been proposed, but not adopted, at the federal level that could preempt additional state legislation in this area.
Compliance Program: Our company-wide compliance program has been in place since 1998. Currently, the program’s elements include a Code of 
Conduct, risk area specific policies and procedures, employee education and training, an internal system for reporting concerns, auditing and monitoring 
programs, and a means for enforcing the program’s policies.
Since its initial adoption, the compliance program continues to be expanded and developed to meet the industry’s expectations and our needs. 
Specific written policies, procedures, training and educational materials and programs, as well as auditing and monitoring activities have been prepared and 
implemented to address the functional and operational aspects of our business. Specific areas identified through regulatory interpretation and enforcement 
activities have also been addressed in our program. Claims preparation and submission, including coding, billing, and cost reports, comprise the bulk of 
these areas. Financial arrangements with physicians and other referral sources, including compliance with anti-kickback and Stark laws and emergency 
department treatment and transfer requirements are also the focus of policy and training, standardized documentation requirements, and review and audit.

 
8United Kingdom Regulation: Our operations in the United Kingdom are also subject to a high level of regulation relating to registration and 
licensing requirements, employee regulation, clinical standards, environmental rules as well as other areas. We are also subject to a highly regulated 
business environment, and failure to comply with the various laws and regulations applicable to us could lead to substantial penalties and other adverse 
effects on our business.
Human Capital Management
Employees and Medical Staff
As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately 99,000 total employees consisting of: (i) approximately 86,000 employees located in the U.S., of 
which approximately 63,000 were employed full-time, and; (ii) approximately 13,000 employees located in the U.K. Our hospitals are staffed by licensed 
physicians who have been admitted to the medical staff of individual hospitals. In a number of our markets, physicians may have admitting privileges at 
other hospitals in addition to ours. Within our acute care division, approximately 370 physicians are employed by physician practice management 
subsidiaries of ours either directly or through contracts with affiliated group practices structured as 501A corporations. Members of the medical staffs of 
our hospitals also serve on the medical staffs of hospitals not owned by us and may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. In addition, 
within our behavioral health division, approximately 510 physicians are employed by subsidiaries of ours either directly or through contracts with affiliated 
group practices structured as 501A corporations. Each of our hospitals is managed on a day-to-day basis by a chief executive officer employed by a 
subsidiary of ours. In addition, a Board of Governors, including members of the hospital’s medical staff, governs the medical, professional and ethical 
practices at each hospital. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory. 
Labor Relations
Approximately 970 of our employees at three of our hospitals are unionized. At Valley Hospital Medical Center, housekeeping and dietary 
employees are represented by the Culinary Workers Union, Local 226, and engineers are represented by the International Union of Operating Engineers. At 
Brooke Glen Behavioral Hospital, unionized employees are represented by the Teamsters, and registered nurses are represented by the Northwestern 
Nurses Association/Pennsylvania Association of Staff Nurses and Allied Professionals. At the George Washington University Hospital, registered nurses 
are represented by the District of Columbia Nurses Association.
Culture and Work Environment
During orientation, newly hired employees learn our mission, vision, principles and values, key policies and procedures, a summary of the various 
benefits and resources available, and perhaps most notably, an overview of our founding principle, Service Excellence. Learning key attributes of our 
Service Excellence standards, which include continuous improvement, employee development, ethical and fair treatment of all, teamwork, quality, 
compassion and innovation in service delivery, provides newly hired employees a thorough understanding of our company culture. Other components of 
our Service Excellence standards, which include treating everyone as a guest, demonstrating professionalism and excellence and practicing teamwork, are 
shared to help guide the desired approach to day-to-day activities. 
Service Excellence Facilitator Certification Workshops are available for facility employees identified by their leadership for consistently upholding 
and demonstrating our Service Excellence standards. Certified facilitators foster the Service Excellence culture and deliver training at their facilities.  In 
2024, we held 12 workshops with 137 individuals certified as Service Excellence Facilitators.
During 2024, we strengthened our recruitment efforts, improved the overall hiring and onboarding experience (89% very satisfied/satisfied with 
overall recruitment process), expanded the training resources employees need to do their jobs effectively and safely, facilitated more teamwork and 
collaboration, addressed burnout, expanded mentorship and increased employee engagement.
We conducted an Employee Engagement Survey and had an overall participation rate of 72% across the organization. 83% of staff indicated “I feel 
included on my team/work unit.” Engagement efforts such as services awards, safety programs and employee-led service excellence/culture committees has 
assisted with increased employee retention. 
Ethical Standards
Each member of our Board of Directors and senior management is committed to healthcare operations that are ethical and in compliance with all 
applicable laws and regulations.
We are committed to fostering a culture of accountability at all levels and encourage our employees to report anything they believe could be 
noncompliant with our values. We prohibit retaliation for the good faith reporting of compliance concerns and offer the ability for individuals to 
anonymously elevate any concerns. Our commitment to fairness and integrity extends to everyone with whom we interact and do business.
Health and Safety
Policies and training programs to encourage work safety are a major focus in our organization. We continue to promote the employee assistance 
program which has provided a superior level of service to all our employees and members of their households. 

 
9We have continuous training on workplace safety and launched a “We Care” program guide to ensure our hospitals support employees in a detailed way in 
the event of an employee injury.  
Employee Development
In keeping with our culture of continuous improvement, training opportunities are available for all employees, regardless of level or status. These 
include formal instructor-led, in-person or virtual training, informal mentoring or networking opportunities, or self-administered online courses.  
Training programs are designed to assist with personal and skill development, career advancement and succession planning. In addition to 
mandatory training that focus on keeping employees mindful and informed of key policies and skill sets, many are voluntary. All training is tailored to 
include potential Americans with Disabilities Act accommodations. 
Across the company, we offer educational and work opportunities, including internships, externships and clinical field placement opportunities. We 
have partnered with Chamberlin University and Drexel University to provide their students with opportunities to earn clinical experience at our healthcare 
facilities. In 2024, Chamberlin University students participated in more than 1,000 clinical rotations at various acute care and behavioral health care 
facilities of ours nationwide. 
We also offer financial assistance programs, such as  educational reimbursement, to support employees participating in degree, certification and 
continuing education programs.
Equal Employment Opportunity
We are committed to the principle of Equal Employment Opportunity ("EEO") for all employees and applicants. As an EEO Employer we support, 
and are fully committed, to recruitment, selection, placement, promotion and compensation of all individuals without regard to race, color, religion, age (40 
and over or as otherwise defined by applicable law), sex (including pregnancy, gender identity, and sexual orientation), genetic information (including 
family medical history), national origin, disability status, protected veteran status or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local laws.
We value each member of our team and are committed to treating everyone with dignity and respect. Our commitment to diversity, equity, and 
inclusion includes regularly monitoring employment practices to ensure inclusivity regardless of an employee’s gender, race or ethnicity and championing 
for inclusive behaviors through leadership example, policies and procedures, training and special events.
Employee Assistance 
We continue to support the overall health and financial well-being of our employees across the extensive programs and benefit plans that we offer. 
Employees can access the UHS Resource Guide which provides details on access to the benefits, resources and support tools available to employees 
throughout our organization.
In 2024, the UHS Foundation continued to support employees and their families who suffered losses due to natural disasters across the country, 
including tornados in Arkansas and Tennessee, Hurricane Beryl (in Texas) and Hurricanes Debby, Milton and Helene (in Florida). 
Environmental
We have implemented environmentally sustainable practices and we comply with applicable legal and regulatory environmental standards to protect 
our patients, visitors, staff and local communities. Our environmental stewardship includes following best practices when managing energy usage, 
constructing and designing new builds and/or major renovations and protecting the local environment.  
• Smart building technology and automation are used across our enterprise to monitor and inform energy management decisions. Centralized 
Utility Billing Management System effectively monitors energy usage across our U.S. facilities, signaling significant deviations from normal 
usage consumption patterns. Automatic fault detection and diagnostics software is implemented in approximately 75% of our acute care 
hospitals to monitor the efficiencies of the heating, ventilation and air conditioning operations. Most of these facilities also utilize retro-
commissioning and monitoring-based commissioning. 
• All of our newly built facilities, or those undergoing major renovation, are required to meet, or exceed, all federal, state and local energy 
efficient codes, use mechanical-electrical-plumbing systems to optimize energy efficiencies and water conservation and be equipped with 
100% emergency back-up generators, with 96 hours of fuel.
New construction or major renovation projects costing at least $20 million are required to be assessed for Green Globes® and/or U.S. Green 
Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certifications. All newly constructed acute care facilities are also 
expected to achieve an ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager Score of 90 or higher. 

 
10• Our facilities have policies and procedures that are compliant with the applicable laws from the Environmental Protection Agency, local 
departments of health and other regulators who oversee the responsible disposal of pollution and waste. 
Our Water Management Program (“WMP”), which is co-managed jointly by a third-party company specializing in water safety, oversees 
programs for potable and process water (e.g., surgical instrument processing) as well as utility water (e.g., cooling tower, boilers) through 
active management and hazard control validation. The WPM is designed to ensure safe water throughout our buildings and meets 
ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 188 (Legionellosis: Risk Management for Building Water Systems). The WPM recently incorporated current 
ANSI/AAMI ST108: 2023 Water standards for the processing of medical devices and standardized ”flushing protocols” for facilities to use 
during terminal cleaning process. 
• Our facilities located in the U.K. advanced several environmentally friendly initiatives in 2024 and continued to procure 100% of their 
electricity from renewable sources. To date, the emission reduction targets for these facilities include:
o Net zero carbon for direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions by 2035.
o Net zero carbon emissions in supply chain (Scope 3) by 2040.
• By January 2024,  a vehicle tracking and driver training device program, Lightfoot, was installed on all company-owned vehicles utilized in 
the U.K. Collectively, the program has reduced CO2 emissions by 236 metric tons across the vehicle fleet since it was introduced in 2020.   
Our leadership teams actively manage opportunities and risks related to our facilities, including those related to climate change and other 
environmental risks. 
Revenue and volume trends may be affected by seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme low temperatures, 
hurricanes and tornadoes, earthquakes, climate change, current local economic and demographic changes. We have a high concentration of facilities in 
various geographic areas, including states that have a potentially higher risk of experiencing events such as severe weather conditions and earthquakes. 
Given the location of our facilities, we are particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase, or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural 
disasters such as hurricanes, wildfires, earthquakes, or tornadoes. Any significant loss due to a natural disaster may not be covered by insurance and may 
lead to an increase in the cost of insurance or unavailability on acceptable terms. Climate change may also have effects on our business by increasing the 
cost of property insurance or making coverage unavailable on acceptable terms. To the extent that significant changes in the climate occur in areas where 
our facilities are located, we may experience increased frequency of severe weather conditions or natural disasters or other changes to weather patterns, all 
of which may result in physical damage to or a decrease in demand for properties affected by these conditions. Should the impact of climate change be 
material in nature or occur for lengthy periods of time, our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or cash flow may be adversely affected. 
In addition, operations may be subject to increases in energy prices as well as increased government regulation, such as the limiting of greenhouse 
gas emissions, intended to mitigate the impact of climate change, severe weather patterns, or natural disasters. These could result in additional required 
capital and/or operational expenditures to comply with such regulation without a corresponding increase in our revenues.
Competition
The health care industry is highly competitive. In recent years, competition among healthcare providers for patients has intensified in the United 
States due to, among other things, regulatory and technological changes, increasing use of managed care payment systems, cost containment pressures and 
a shift toward outpatient treatment. In all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other facilities that provide services comparable to those 
offered by our facilities. In addition, some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit 
corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sale and income taxes. Such exemptions and 
support are not available to us.
In some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than us. 
Certain hospitals that are located in the areas served by our facilities are specialty or large hospitals that provide medical, surgical and behavioral health 
services, facilities and equipment that are not available at our hospitals. The increase in outpatient treatment and diagnostic facilities, including outpatient 
surgical centers and addiction treatment centers offering medically assisted treatments, also increases competition for us.  In addition, some of our hospitals 
face competition from hospitals or surgery centers that are physician owned.
The number and quality of the physicians on a hospital’s staff are important factors in determining a hospital’s success and competitive advantage. 
Typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. We believe that physicians 
refer patients to a hospital primarily on the basis of the patient’s needs and insurance coverage, the quality of other physicians on the medical staff, the 
location of the hospital and the breadth and scope of services offered at the hospital’s facilities. We strive to retain and attract qualified doctors by 
maintaining high ethical and professional standards and providing adequate support personnel, technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet 
the needs of those physicians.

 
11In addition, we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses and other health care 
professionals, as well as non-professionals such as mental health technicians. We compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining 
qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. 
Certain states in which we operate hospitals have CON laws. The application process for approval of additional covered services, new facilities, 
changes in operations and capital expenditures is, therefore, highly competitive in these states. In those states that do not have CON laws or which set 
relatively high levels of expenditures before they become reviewable by state authorities, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital 
spending is more prevalent. See “Regulation and Other Factors.”
Our ability to negotiate favorable service contracts with purchasers of group health care services also affects our competitive position and 
significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. Managed care plans, including managed Medicare and Medicaid plans, attempt to 
direct and control the use of hospital services and to demand that we accept lower rates of payment. In addition, employers and traditional health insurers 
are increasingly interested in containing costs through negotiations with hospitals for managed care programs and discounts from established charges. In 
return, hospitals secure commitments for a larger number of potential patients. Generally, hospitals compete for service contracts with group health care 
service purchasers on the basis of price, market reputation, geographic location, quality and range of services, quality of the medical staff and convenience. 
The importance of obtaining contracts with managed care organizations varies from market to market depending on the market strength of such 
organizations.
An element of our growth strategy is expansion through the acquisition of additional hospitals in select markets. The competition to acquire 
hospitals is significant. We compete for acquisitions with other for-profit health care companies, private equity and venture capital firms, as well as not-for-
profit entities. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We intend to selectively seek opportunities to expand our base of operations by 
adhering to our disciplined program of rational growth, but may not be successful in accomplishing acquisitions on favorable terms.
Relationship with Universal Health Realty Income Trust
At December 31, 2024, we held approximately 5.7% of the outstanding shares of Universal Health Realty Income Trust (the “Trust”). We serve as 
Advisor to the Trust under an annually renewable advisory agreement, which is scheduled to expire on December 31st of each year, pursuant to the terms of 
which we conduct the Trust’s day-to-day affairs, provide administrative services and present investment opportunities. The advisory agreement was 
renewed by the Trust for 2025 at the same rate in place for 2024, 2023 and 2022, providing for an advisory computation at 0.70% of the Trust’s average 
invested real estate assets. We earned an advisory fee from the Trust, which is included in net revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of 
income, of approximately $5.5 million during 2024, approximately $5.3 million during 2023 and $5.1 million during 2022.
In addition, certain of our officers and directors are also officers and/or directors of the Trust. Management believes that it has the ability to exercise 
significant influence over the Trust, therefore we account for our investment in the Trust using the equity method of accounting.
Our pre-tax share of income from the Trust was $1.1 million during 2024, $874,000 during 2023 and $1.2 million during 2022, which are included 
in other income (expense), net, on the accompanying consolidated statements of income for each year. We received dividends from the Trust amounting to 
$2.3 million during each of 2024 and 2023 and $2.2 million during 2022.  The carrying value of our investment in the Trust was $5.8  million and $7.0 
million at December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and is included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The market value of 
our investment in the Trust was $29.3 million at December 31, 2024 and $34.1 million at December 31, 2023, based on the closing price of the Trust’s 
stock on the respective dates.
The Trust commenced operations in 1986 by purchasing certain hospital properties from us and immediately leasing the properties back to our 
respective subsidiaries. The base rents are paid monthly and the bonus rents, which effective as of January 1, 2022 are applicable only to McAllen Medical 
Center, are computed and paid on a quarterly basis, based upon a computation that compares current quarter revenue to a corresponding quarter in the base 
year. The leases with those subsidiaries are unconditionally guaranteed by us and are cross-defaulted with one another.
On December 31, 2021, we entered into an asset purchase and sale agreement with the Trust, which was amended during the first quarter of 2022, 
pursuant to the terms of which: (i) a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours purchased from the Trust the real estate assets of the Inland Valley Campus of 
Southwest Healthcare System located in Wildomar, California, at its fair market value; (ii)  two wholly-owned subsidiaries of ours transferred to the Trust, 
at their respective fair-market values, the real estate assets of Aiken Regional Medical Center (“Aiken”), located in Aiken, South Carolina (which includes 
a 211-bed acute care hospital and a 62-bed behavioral health facility), and Canyon Creek Behavioral Health (“Canyon Creek”), located in Temple, Texas, 
and; (iii) we received approximately $4.1 million in cash from the Trust.
As a result of the purchase options within the lease agreements for Aiken and Canyon Creek, the asset purchase and sale transaction is accounted for 
as a failed sale leaseback in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We have accounted for the asset exchange and substitution transaction with the Trust as a 
financing arrangement and, since we did not derecognize the real property related to Aiken 

 
12and Canyon Creek, we will continue to depreciate the assets. Our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 reflects a 
financial liability of $73.8 million and $77.5 million, respectively, which is included in debt, for the fair value of real estate assets that we exchanged as 
part of the transaction. Our monthly lease payments payable to the Trust will be recorded to interest expense and as a reduction to the outstanding financial 
liability. The amount allocated to interest expense is determined using our incremental borrowing rate and is based on the outstanding financial liability.
The aggregate rent payable to the Trust in connection with the leases on McAllen Medical Center, Wellington Regional Medical Center, Aiken 
Regional Medical Center and Canyon Creek Behavioral Health was approximately $21.2 million during 2024 and $20.6 million during 2023. 
Pursuant to the Master Leases by certain subsidiaries of ours and the Trust as described in the table below, dated 1986 and 2021 (“the Master 
Leases”) which govern the leases of McAllen Medical Center and Wellington Regional Medical Center (each of which is governed by the Master Lease 
dated 1986), and Aiken Regional Medical Center and Canyon Creek Behavioral Health (each of which is governed by the Master Lease dated 2021), we 
have the option to renew the leases at the lease terms described above and below by providing notice to the Trust at least 90 days prior to the termination of 
the then current term. We also have the right to purchase the respective leased hospitals at their appraised fair market value upon any of the following: (i) at 
the end of the lease terms or any renewal terms; (ii) upon one month’s notice should a change of control of the Trust occur, or; (iii) within the time period 
as specified in the lease in the event that we provide notice to the Trust of our intent to offer a substitution property/properties in exchange for one (or 
more) of the hospital properties leased from the Trust should we be unable to reach an agreement with the Trust on the properties to be substituted.  In 
addition, we have rights of first refusal to: (i) purchase the respective leased facilities during and for a specified period after the lease terms at the same 
price, terms and conditions of any third-party offer, or; (ii) renew the lease on the respective leased facility at the end of, and for a specified period after, the 
lease term at the same terms and conditions pursuant to any third-party offer.
In addition, we are the managing, majority member in a joint venture with an unrelated third-party that operates Clive Behavioral Health, a 100-bed 
behavioral health care facility located in Clive, Iowa. The real property of this facility, which was completed and opened in late 2020, is also leased from 
the Trust (annual rental of approximately $2.8 million, $2.7 million and $2.6 million during 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively) pursuant to the lease terms 
as provided in the table below. In connection with the lease on this facility, the joint venture has the right to purchase the leased facility from the Trust at its 
appraised fair market value upon either of the following: (i) by providing notice at least 270 days prior to the end of the lease terms or any renewal terms, 
or; (ii) upon 30 days' notice anytime within 12 months of a change of control of the Trust (UHS also has this right should the joint venture decline to 
exercise its purchase right). Additionally, the joint venture has rights of first offer to purchase the facility prior to any third-party sale.
The table below provides certain details for each of the hospitals leased from the Trust as of January 1, 2025:
 
Hospital Name   Annual
Minimum
Rent   End of Lease Term Renewal
Term
(years)   
McAllen Medical Center   $ 5,485,000  December, 2026  5 (a)
Wellington Regional Medical Center   $ 6,805,000  December, 2026  5 (b)
Aiken Regional Medical Center/Aurora Pavilion Behavioral Health 
Services   $ 4,164,000  December, 2033  35 (c)
Canyon Creek Behavioral Health   $ 1,882,000  December, 2033  35 (c)
Clive Behavioral Health   $ 2,851,000  December, 2040  50 (d)
(a) We have one 5-year renewal option at existing lease rates (through 2031).
(b) We have one 5-year renewal option at fair market value lease rates (through 2031).  On each January 1st through 2026, the annual rent will increase 
by 2.50% on a cumulative and compounded basis.
(c) We have seven 5-year renewal options at fair market value lease rates (2034 through 2068).  On each January 1st through 2033, the annual rent will 
increase by 2.25% on a cumulative and compounded basis.
(d) This facility is operated by a joint venture in which we are the managing, majority member and an unrelated third-party holds a minority ownership 
interest. The joint venture has three, 10-year renewal options at computed lease rates as stipulated in the lease (2041 through 2070) and two 
additional, 10-year renewal options at fair market values lease rates (2071 through 2090). In each January through 2040 (and potentially through 
2070 if three, 10-year renewal options are exercised), the annual rental will increase by 2.75% on a cumulative and compounded basis.  
 In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are tenants in several medical office buildings (“MOBs”) and two free-standing emergency departments 
("FED") owned by the Trust or by limited liability companies in which the Trust holds 95% to 100% of the ownership interest.  In connection with these 
two FEDs, in October, 2024, our subsidiaries exercised their 5-year renewal options on the facilities which are located in Weslaco and Mission, Texas.  
Each renewal option covers the period of February 1, 2025 through January 31, 2030 (the current lease terms were scheduled to expire on January 31, 
2025; with aggregate annual lease rates of 

 
13approximately $979,000). Pursuant to terms of the leases, and consistent with the terms of the leases currently in effect for each property, the lease rates are 
scheduled to increase 2% per year through the end of the renewed lease terms. Our subsidiaries have five, 5-year renewal options remaining on each of 
these FEDs, with the first three renewal options (covering the years 2030 through 2044) providing for 2% annual increases to the lease rates, and the 
remaining two, 5-year renewal options (covering the years 2045 through 2054) providing for lease rates at the then fair market value. These leases are 
cross-defaulted with one another and our subsidiaries have the option to purchase the leased properties upon the expiration of each five-year extended term 
at the fair market value at that time.            
During the third quarter of 2023, the Trust acquired the McAllen Doctor's Center, a 79,500 rentable square feet medical office building located in 
McAllen, Texas.  A master lease was executed between a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours and the Trust, pursuant to the terms of which our subsidiary will 
master lease 100% of the rentable square feet of the MOB at an initial minimum rent of $624,000 annually.  The master lease commenced during August, 
2023 and is scheduled to expire in twelve years from that date.
During the first quarter of 2023, the Trust substantially completed construction on a new 86,000 rentable square foot multi-tenant MOB that is 
located on the campus of Northern Nevada Sierra Medical Center in Reno, Nevada. Northern Nevada Sierra Medical Center, a 170-bed newly constructed 
acute care hospital owned and operated by a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours, was completed and opened in April, 2022. In connection with this MOB, a 
ten-year master flex lease was executed between a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours and the Trust (scheduled to expire in March, 2033), pursuant to the 
terms of which our subsidiary initially agreed to master lease up to approximately 68% of the rentable square feet of the MOB. The master flex lease has 
been reduced since inception as certain conditions have been met. A ground lease for this facility commenced during 2023 and is scheduled to expire in 
2098.
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The executive officers, whose terms will expire at such time as their successors are elected, are as follows:
 
Name and Age  Present Position with the Company
Marc D. Miller (54)  Chief Executive Officer, President and Director
Alan B. Miller (87)  Executive Chairman of the Board
Steve G. Filton (67)  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary
Matthew J. Peterson (55)  Executive Vice President, President of Behavioral Health Division
Edward H. Sim (53)  Executive Vice President, President of Acute Care Division
Mr. Marc D. Miller was appointed Chief Executive Officer and President effective January 1, 2021.  He has served as President since May, 2009 
and prior thereto served as Senior Vice President and co-head of our Acute Care Hospitals since 2007. He was elected a Director in May, 2006 and Vice 
President in 2005. He has served in various capacities related to our acute care division since 2000. He was elected to the Board of Trustees of Universal 
Health Realty Income Trust in December, 2008. In August, 2015, he was appointed to the Board of Directors of Premier, Inc., a publicly traded healthcare 
performance improvement alliance.  See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Relationship with Universal Health Realty Income Trust and 
Other Related Party Transactions for additional disclosure regarding the Company’s group purchasing organization agreement with Premier, Inc. Marc D. 
Miller is the son of Alan B. Miller, our Executive Chairman of the Board. 
Mr. Alan B. Miller was appointed Executive Chairman of the Board effective January 1, 2021. He had been Chairman of the Board and Chief 
Executive Officer since the Company’s inception and also served as President from inception until May, 2009. Prior thereto, he was President, Chairman of 
the Board and Chief Executive Officer of American Medicorp, Inc. He currently serves as Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of 
Universal Health Realty Income Trust. He is the father of Marc D. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Director.
Mr. Filton was elected Executive Vice President in 2017 and continues to serve as Chief Financial Officer since his appointment in 2003. He has 
also served as Secretary since 1999.  He had served as Senior Vice President since 2003, as Vice President and Controller since 1991, and as Director of 
Corporate Accounting since 1985.
Mr. Peterson’s employment with us commenced in September, 2019 as Executive Vice President and President of our Behavioral Health Division.  
He was formerly employed at UnitedHealth Group for 11 years serving in various capacities including Chief Operating Officer for OptumGovernment, a 
health services and technology company, as well as various other Senior Vice President/Vice President roles.  In addition to his civilian business career, 
Mr. Peterson served in the Air National Guard ("ANG"), U.S. Airforce, and was promoted to Brigadier General prior to his retirement from the ANG in 
August, 2024.   
Mr. Sim's employment with us commenced in December, 2022 as Executive Vice President and President of our Acute Care Division.  He was 
formerly employed as Chief Operating Officer at Centura Health, since 2017.  Prior to joining Centura Health, Mr. Sim served in senior leadership roles of 
increasing responsibility for 11 years at Baptist Health.  

 
14ITEM 1A. Risk Factors
We are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Any of the events 
described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that 
we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations.
Risks Related to Business Operations
A significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in Texas, Nevada and California.
Texas: We own 7 inpatient acute care hospitals, 13 free-standing emergency departments, 1 acute outpatient center and 20 inpatient behavioral 
healthcare facilities as listed in Item 2. Properties. On a combined basis, these facilities contributed 16% and 17% of our consolidated net revenues during 
2024 and 2023, respectively.  On a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 21% in 2024 
and 26% in 2023, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest.
Nevada: We own 10 inpatient acute care hospitals, 11 free-standing emergency departments, 3 acute outpatient centers and 4 inpatient behavioral 
healthcare facilities as listed in Item 2. Properties. On a combined basis, these facilities contributed 18% and 16% of our consolidated net revenues during 
2024 and 2023, respectively. On a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 27% in 2024 and 
16% in 2023, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. 
California: We own 5 inpatient acute care hospitals, 2 acute outpatient centers, 9 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities and 3  behavioral 
healthcare outpatient facilities as listed in Item 2. Properties. On a combined basis, these facilities contributed 11%  of our consolidated net revenues 
during both 2024 and 2023, respectively. On a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 12% 
in both 2024 and 2023, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest.
This geographic concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, public health, environmental and competitive conditions in 
those states. Any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, public health, environmental or competitive conditions in those 
states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results.  In addition, certain of our facilities and our operations in those states may be 
adversely impacted by wildfires (most particularly in California), winter storms, and other severe weather conditions, which adverse weather conditions 
may be more frequent and/or severe as the result of climate change. Such wildfires, storms or other severe weather conditions may cause considerable 
disruptions in our operations due to property damage or electrical outages experienced in affected areas by our personnel, payers, vendors and others, and 
may cause our commercial property insurance premiums and/or self-insured retentions to increase significantly.  
Our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payers.
We derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party payers, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Changes in these 
government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare 
services. Payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and 
determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program 
payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. Changes resulting from the outcome of the 
2024 elections may include increased reliance on Medicare Advantage programs, work requirements for Medicaid waiver program eligibility, increased 
focus on hospital outpatient site neutral payment policies, and similar initiatives that may reduce the availability of funding for federal healthcare programs 
or make eligibility for benefits more difficult. There have been proposals to substantially decrease federal funding for state Medicaid Programs.  Any 
significant reduction in federal Medicaid funding to states would likely result in states reducing Medicaid payments to us which would have a material 
adverse effect on us. We are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. In addition, the uncertainty and fiscal 
pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, deterioration in general economic conditions and the funding 
requirements from the federal healthcare reform legislation, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, 
the vast majority of the net revenues generated at our behavioral health facilities located in the United Kingdom are derived from governmental payers. If 
the rates paid or the scope of services covered by governmental payers in the United States or United Kingdom are reduced, there could be a material 
adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.
As discussed in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Summary of Various State 
Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs, we receive revenues from various state and county-based programs, including Medicaid in all states in which 
we operate. We receive annual Medicaid revenues of approximately $100 million, or greater, from each of Texas, Nevada, California, Illinois, 
Pennsylvania, Washington, D.C., Kentucky, Florida, Virginia, Massachusetts and Mississippi. We also receive Medicaid disproportionate share hospital 
payments from certain states including, most significantly, 

 
15Texas. Most of these programs are approved on a year-to-year basis and there is no assurance that these revenues will continue at their current rates or at 
all.  We are therefore particularly sensitive to potential reductions in Medicaid and other state-based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, 
environmental and competitive changes in those states. 
In addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payers, including managed 
care organizations, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. Private payers, including managed care organizations, 
increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment.
We expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. Reductions in reimbursement amounts 
received from third-party payers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations.
If we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors.
In recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services (“CMS”) publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with 
the Medicare program. Federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. Additionally, the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Legislation”) requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges 
for products and services. Also, the No Surprises Act, adopted as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (“CAA”), creates additional price 
transparency requirements beginning January 1, 2022, including requiring providers to send health plans of insured patients and uninsured patients a good 
faith estimate of the expected charges and diagnostic codes prior to the scheduled date of the service or item. If any of our hospitals achieve poor results on 
the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our 
competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics 
and pricing. This circumstance could harm our business and results of operations.
An increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients 
could harm our results of operations.
Collection of receivables from third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. Our primary 
collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient’s responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and 
deductibles. However, we also have substantial receivables due to us from certain state-based funding programs. We estimate our provisions for doubtful 
accounts based on general factors such as payer mix, the agings of the receivables, historical collection experience and assessment of probability of future 
collections. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect 
the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. Significant changes in business office operations, payer 
mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and 
results of operations. If we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of 
operations will be harmed.
Our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers.
The healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has 
intensified in recent years. In all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other facilities that provide services comparable to those offered 
by our facilities. Some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may 
be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. Such exemptions and support are not 
available to us.
In some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we 
offer. The number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in 
the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment.
We also operate health care facilities in the United Kingdom where the National Health Service (the “NHS”) is the principal provider of healthcare 
services. In addition to the NHS, we face competition in the United Kingdom from independent sector providers and other publicly funded entities for 
patients. 
If our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable 
managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed.
Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians.
Typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. As a result, the 
success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on 

 
16the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. Physicians 
generally are not employees of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our 
hospitals. They may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. If we are unable to maintain high ethical and professional standards, adequate support 
personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients 
to our facilities and our results of operations may decline.
It may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain communities in which our hospitals are 
located. Our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients 
to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of one or more of 
these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and 
cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians.
Continued increase in hospital based physician expenses will materially affect our costs and results of operations.
In our acute care segment, during the past few years we experienced significant increases in hospital-based physician related expenses, especially in 
the areas of emergency room care and anesthesiology. We have implemented various initiatives to mitigate the increased expense, to the degree possible, 
which has moderated the rate of increase experienced during 2024 and 2023. However, significant increases in these physician related expenses could have 
a material unfavorable impact on our future results of operations.
If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to 
maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected.
The technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to 
offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. To compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when 
significant technological advances occur. If our facilities do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek 
treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and 
harm our business.
Our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may 
increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations.
We depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and 
other healthcare professionals. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other 
medical personnel.
The nationwide shortage of nurses and other clinical staff and support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare 
providers. In particular, like others in the healthcare industry, we experienced a shortage of nurses and other clinical staff and support personnel at our 
acute care and behavioral health care hospitals in many geographic areas which was exacerbated by the COVID ‑ 19 pandemic. In some areas, the increased 
demand for care during the COVID-19 pandemic put a strain on our resources and staff, which required us to utilize higher ‑ cost temporary labor and pay 
premiums above standard compensation for essential workers. Personnel shortages may require us to further enhance wages and benefits to recruit and 
retain nurses and other clinical staff and support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. To the extent we cannot maintain sufficient 
staffing levels at our hospitals, we may be required to limit the acute and behavioral health care services provided at certain of our hospitals which would 
have a corresponding adverse effect on our net revenues. In addition, in some markets such as California, there are requirements to maintain specified 
nurse-staffing levels which could adversely affect our net revenues to the extent we cannot meet those levels. If these states increase mandatory nurse-
staffing ratios or additional states in which we operate adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios, such changes could significantly affect labor costs and have 
an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios.
We cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. 
If our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. Our failure to either recruit and retain qualified 
hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations.
Increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. Union organizing activities and certain potential changes 
in federal labor laws and regulations could increase the likelihood of employee unionization in the future, to the extent a greater portion of our employee 
base unionized, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially.
The failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain facilities, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals.
The economies in the communities in which our hospitals operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers. Those employers often 
provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care 
facilities for their care. The failure of one or more large employer or the closure or 

 
17substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause 
affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. The occurrence of these events 
could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business.
The trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. 
We believe that value-based purchasing initiatives of both governmental and private payers tying financial incentives to quality and efficiency of 
care will increasingly affect the results of operations of our hospitals and other healthcare facilities and may negatively impact our revenues if we are 
unable to meet expected quality standards. The Legislation contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing in federal 
healthcare programs. Medicare now requires providers to report certain quality measures in order to receive full reimbursement increases for inpatient and 
outpatient procedures that were previously awarded automatically. In addition, hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards will 
receive increased reimbursement payments, and hospitals that have “excess readmissions” for specified conditions will receive reduced reimbursement. 
Furthermore, Medicare no longer pays hospitals additional amounts for the treatment of certain hospital-acquired conditions unless the conditions were 
present at admission. Beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, hospitals that rank in the worst 25% of all hospitals nationally for hospital acquired conditions 
in the previous year were subject to reduced Medicare reimbursements. The Legislation also prohibits the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program 
to reimburse providers for treating certain provider-preventable conditions. 
There is a trend among private payers toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services, as well. Many large commercial payers require 
hospitals to report quality data, and several of these payers will not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. We expect value-based 
purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher 
percentage of reimbursement amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively 
impact our revenues if we are unable to meet or maintain high quality standards established by both governmental and private payers. 
Controls designed to reduce inpatient services and increasing rates of “denials” may reduce our revenues.
Controls imposed by third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as “utilization review,” have 
affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by 
managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission 
authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. 
Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. In addition, we have been experiencing increasing rates of denied claims 
(“denials”) from managed care payers, including managed Medicare, which have reduced our net revenues and increased our operating costs as we devote 
additional resources to enhanced documentation and collection efforts.  Although we cannot predict the effect these factors will have on our operations, 
significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed, and reimbursements withheld due to denials, could have a material adverse effect on our business, 
financial position and results of operations.
We depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital 
management personnel could harm our business.
The expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our 
business. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could 
significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our 
business. 
Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment
Reductions or changes in Medicare and Medicaid funding could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.
The Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “Budget Control Act”) mandated significant reductions in federal spending for fiscal years 2012-2021, 
including a reduction of 2% on all Medicare payments during this period. The most recent legislation extended these reductions through 2032. Please see 
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Sources of Revenue-Medicare, for additional disclosure.
Beginning in 2025 and continuing through 2027, the Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (“DSH”) allotment to the states from federal funds 
will be reduced. Such reductions have been delayed several times, most recently under the American Relief Act 2025, which delayed the DSH reductions 
through March 31, 2025. During the reduction period, state Medicaid DSH allotments from federal funds will be reduced by $8 billion annually. 
Reductions are imposed on states based on percentage of uninsured individuals, Medicaid utilization and uncompensated care. We receive Medicaid DSH 
payments in certain states including, most significantly, Texas. We are therefore particularly sensitive to potential reductions in Medicaid and other state-
based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. We can provide no assurance that 
reductions to revenues earned pursuant to these programs, particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future 
results of operations.

 
18We are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform.
On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Legislation. Two primary goals of the Legislation are to provide for increased access to 
coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses.
Although it was expected that as a result of the Legislation there would be a reduction in uninsured patients, which would reduce our expense from 
uncollectible accounts receivable, the Legislation makes a number of other changes to Medicare and Medicaid which we believe may have an adverse 
impact on us. The Legislation revises reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care 
and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. The Legislation implements a value-based purchasing 
program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. Conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality 
parameters; such hospitals will include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates. As a result of the 2024 federal elections and 
the Braidwood Management v. Becerra litigation currently before the U.S. Supreme Court, it remains unclear what portions of that legislation may remain, 
or what any replacement or alternative programs may be created by future legislation.  
A 2012 U.S. Supreme Court ruling limited the federal government’s ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional 
sections of the Legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain Medicaid coverage requirements. Pursuant to that 
decision, the federal government may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the Medicaid expansion program by reducing their existing 
Medicaid funding. Therefore, states can choose to accept or not to participate without risking the loss of federal Medicaid funding. As a result, many states, 
including Texas, have not expanded their Medicaid programs without the threat of loss of federal funding. In the past, CMS has granted section 1115 
demonstration waivers providing for work and community engagement requirements for certain Medicaid eligible individuals. The previous Trump 
administration's section 1115 waiver policy emphasized work requirements, eligibility restrictions on Medicaid, and capped funding.  The second Trump 
administration may, again, take a similar approach.   
The Legislation also contained provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. The Legislation amended several existing laws, 
including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits 
brought against healthcare providers. While Congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the Anti-Kickback Statute to provide that a person is 
not required to “have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of” the Anti-Kickback Statute in order to be found in violation of such law, 
the Legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the Anti-Kickback Statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the 
federal civil False Claims Act. The Legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal 
civil False Claims Act. The Legislation also expanded the Recovery Audit Contractor program to Medicaid. These amendments also make it easier for 
severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations.
We have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. These investments have been permitted under an exception to 
the physician self-referral law. The Legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a “grandfather” clause if the 
arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the 
hospital. The Legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of 
physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities.  A repeal of the Legislation, in whole or in relevant part, may result in physicians being 
able to expand ownership interest in hospitals.
Initiatives to repeal or modify the Legislation, in whole or in part, have been persistent. While President Trump did not campaign on repeal of the 
Legislation, executive and legislative efforts to eliminate or reduce the effect of certain Legislation provisions may yet occur. The ultimate outcomes of 
legislative attempts to repeal or amend the Legislation and legal challenges to the Legislation are unknown. Legislation has already been enacted that has 
eliminated the penalty for failing to maintain health coverage that was an integral part of the original Legislation. 
It remains unclear what portions of the Legislation may remain, or whether any replacement or alternative programs may be created by any future 
legislation. Any such future repeal or replacement may have significant impact on the reimbursement for healthcare services generally, and may create 
reimbursement for services competing with the services offered by our hospitals. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the adoption of any future 
federal or state healthcare reform legislation will not have a negative financial impact on our hospitals, including their ability to compete with alternative 
healthcare services funded by such potential legislation, or for our hospitals to receive payment for services.
The Legislation and its implementation have been, and remain, politically controversial. While attempts to repeal the entirety of the Legislation have 
not been successful to date, a key provision of the Legislation was repealed as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and on December 14, 2018, a Texas 
Federal District Court Judge declared the Legislation unconstitutional, reasoning that the individual mandate tax penalty was essential to and not severable 
from the remainder of the Legislation. The case was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court which ultimately held in California v. Texas that the plaintiffs 
lacked standing to challenge the Legislation’s requirement to obtain minimum essential health insurance coverage, or the individual mandate.  The Court 
dismissed the case without 

 
19specifically ruling on the constitutionality of the Legislation. On September 7, 2022, the same Texas Federal District Court judge, in the case of Braidwood 
Management v. Becerra, ruled that the requirement that certain health plans cover services with an “A” or “B” recommendation from the U.S. Preventive 
Services Task Force without cost sharing violates the Appointments Clause of the U.S. Constitution and that the coverage of certain HIV prevention 
medication violates the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. The government has appealed the decision to the U.S. Supreme Court. We are unable to 
predict the outcome of this litigation or its potential impact at this time.  
The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) was passed on August 16, 2022, which among other things, allows for CMS to negotiate prices for 
certain single-source drugs and biologics reimbursed under Medicare Part B and Part D, beginning with 10 high-cost drugs paid for by Medicare Part D 
starting in 2026, followed by 15 Part D drugs in 2027, 15 Part B or Part D drugs in 2028, and 20 Part B or Part D drugs in 2029 and beyond. The IRA also 
continued certain subsidies for individuals to obtain private health insurance under the Legislation through 2025. The effect of the 2024 federal elections on 
IRA price negotiation provisions or on the likelihood of extended health insurance enrollment subsidies beyond 2025 is not yet known. The Trump 
administration has already taken steps to undo certain Biden-era executive orders, including those intended to lower drug costs for beneficiaries, and to 
freeze funding for federal programs. While the administration’s initial freeze has since been rescinded, the administration is likely to make other attempts to 
reduce federal program expenditures and can generally be expected to oppose increases in ACA and Medicaid enrollment.  
Under the Legislation, hospitals are required to make public a list of their standard charges, and effective January 1, 2019, CMS has required that 
this disclosure be in machine-readable format and include charges for all hospital items and services and average charges for diagnosis-related groups. On 
November 27, 2019, CMS published a final rule on “Price Transparency Requirements for Hospitals to Make Standard Charges Public.” This rule took 
effect on January 1, 2021 and requires all hospitals to also make public their payer-specific negotiated rates, minimum negotiated rates, maximum 
negotiated rates and cash for all items and services, including individual items and services and service packages, that could be provided by a hospital to a 
patient. On April 26, 2023, CMS announced updated enforcement processes that requires a shortened timeline for coming into compliance when a violation 
has been identified and the automatic imposition of a civil monetary penalties in certain circumstances of noncompliance. Failure to comply with these 
requirements may result in daily monetary penalties.
As part of the CAA, Congress passed legislation aimed at preventing or limiting patient balance billing in certain circumstances. The CAA 
addresses surprise medical bills stemming from emergency services, out-of-network ancillary providers at in-network facilities, and air ambulance carriers. 
The legislation prohibits surprise billing when out-of-network emergency services or out-of-network services at an in-network facility are provided, unless 
informed consent is received. The law provides for a 30-day negotiation period for providers and payers to settle out-of-network claims. If no agreement is 
reached after this period, either party may opt for a binding independent dispute resolution (“IDR”) process. CMS regulations and guidance implementing 
the IDR process has been subject to a significant amount of provider-initiated litigation. As a result, portions of those regulations and guidance materials 
have been vacated by a federal district court, causing CMS to, on several occasions, pause and resume IDR process operations, causing significant delay in 
the processing of claims. Additionally, arguments made by the plaintiffs in such litigation have included allegations that CMS’s regulations and guidance 
materials are favorable to payers. For these reasons, there can be no assurances that we will receive timely payments in connection with this process. 
We are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay.
In accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, or EMTALA, we 
provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment 
(whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical 
condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is 
required to stabilize the patient’s medical condition, within the facility’s capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in 
accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital’s written procedures. Our obligations under EMTALA may increase substantially going forward. 
If the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our 
obligations to inpatients under EMTALA is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed.
If we fail to continue to meet the promoting interoperability criteria related to electronic health record systems (“EHR”), our operations could be 
harmed.
Pursuant to Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) regulations, hospitals that did not qualify as a 
meaningful user of EHR by 2015 were subject to a reduced market basket update to the inpatient prospective payment system (“IPPS”) standardized 
amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. In the 2019 IPPS final rule, CMS re-named the meaningful use program to “promoting interoperability”.  
We believe that all of our acute care hospitals have met the applicable promoting interoperability criteria and therefore are not subject to a reduced market 
basked update to the IPPS standardized amount. However, under the HITECH Act, hospitals must continue to meet the applicable criteria in each fiscal 
year or they will be subject to a market basket update reduction in a subsequent fiscal year. Failure of our acute care hospitals to continue to meet the 
applicable criteria would have an adverse effect on our future net revenues and results of operations.

 
20If we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant 
changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability.
The healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels 
relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of 
medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, 
maintenance, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of 
patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; 
construction or expansion of facilities and services.
Among these laws are the federal False Claims Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, (“HIPAA”), the federal anti-
kickback statute and the provision of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark Law.” These laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute 
and the Stark Law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. We have a variety of financial relationships with 
physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. We also provide financial 
incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. The Office of the Inspector General of 
the Department of Health and Human Services, or OIG, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from 
prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. A number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral 
sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. Failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement 
necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. We cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe 
harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. CMS published a Medicare self-referral disclosure protocol, which is intended to allow 
providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the Stark law. Because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the Stark law, there can 
be no assurance that our hospitals will not be found in violation of the Stark Law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced 
penalties.
Federal regulations issued under HIPAA contain provisions that require us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional 
costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient’s health and 
related financial information. Such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our 
use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to 
enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. Additionally, 
recent changes to HIPAA regulations may result in greater compliance requirements, including obligations to report breaches of unsecured patient data, as 
well as create new liabilities for the actions of parties acting as business associates on our behalf.
These laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the 
future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of 
impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating 
expenses. A determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Commitments and 
Contingencies, as included this Form 10-K), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, 
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. In 
addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations 
may take or what their impact on us may be. See Item 1 Business—Self-Referral and Anti-Kickback Legislation.
If we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the Stark Law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be 
subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one 
or more facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. The imposition of such penalties could 
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
We also operate health care facilities in the United Kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign 
jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain U.S. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. The Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act regulates U.S. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they 
maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. In addition, the United Kingdom Bribery Act 
has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the United Kingdom.
Our operations in the United Kingdom are also subject to a high level of regulation relating to registration and licensing requirements employee 
regulation, clinical standards, environmental rules, data protection as well as other areas. We are also subject to a highly regulated business environment, 
and failure to comply with the various laws and regulations, applicable to us could lead to substantial penalties, and other adverse effects on our business. 
United Kingdom data protection laws, including the UK Data Protection Act and legislation commonly referred to as the UK GDPR, has required us to 
implement, and in the future may require us 

 
21to implement, additional costly, technical and organizational measures designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient’s health and 
related financial information, and other personal information.
We are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business 
and results of operations.
We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Regulatory requirements affecting us 
include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne 
pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other 
hazardous materials. If we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of 
operations.  
We are subject to pending legal actions, purported stockholder class actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions.
We and our subsidiaries are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see Note 8 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements - Commitments and Contingencies, as included this Form 10-K). We may become subject to additional medical malpractice lawsuits, 
product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. 
Defending ourselves against the allegations in the lawsuits and governmental investigations, or similar matters and any related publicity, could 
potentially entail significant costs and could require significant attention from our management and our reputation could suffer significantly. 
For example, as discussed elsewhere herein:
• On March 28, 2024, a jury returned a verdict for compensatory damages of $60 million and punitive damages of $475 million and a 
related judgment was entered against The Pavilion Behavioral Health System (the “Pavilion”), an indirect subsidiary of the Company. In an order 
dated October 10, 2024, the trial court ordered a remittitur of punitive damages from $475 million to $120 million. The court denied the Pavilion’s 
request for reduction of compensatory damages. The Pavilion has filed an appeal of the remaining judgment and the Plaintiff filed a cross appeal of 
the  remittitur of punitive damages. Plaintiff has filed and served a Citation to Discover Assets ("Citation") on the Pavilion as well as Universal 
Health Services, Inc., and UHS of Delaware, Inc. ("UHS Entities") for the purported purpose of executing on the judgment during the pendency of 
the appeal. We are currently contesting the Citation as to the UHS Entities who were not parties to the litigation as well as the breadth and scope of 
the Citation issued to the Pavilion. 
• Cumberland Hospital for Children and Adolescents (“Cumberland”), an indirect subsidiary of the Company, is a defendant in multi-
plaintiff lawsuits filed in the Circuit Court for Richmond, Virginia (the “Cumberland Litigation”), relating to allegations of inappropriate sexual 
contact during medical examinations by Dr. Daniel Davidow, an independent contractor and the former medical director for Cumberland. The 
Company and UHS of Delaware, Inc., our administrative services subsidiary (“UHS Delaware”), were also named as co-defendants in the 
Cumberland Litigation. Plaintiffs have asserted claims of negligence, assault and battery (against Dr. Davidow), false imprisonment, violations of 
the Virginia Consumer Protection Act (“VCPA”), and vicarious liability for Dr. Davidow’s conduct against Cumberland, the Company, and UHS 
Delaware. The Company and UHS Delaware were dismissed from the action during the trial, which occurred in September, 2024. On September 27, 
2024, a jury entered a verdict finding Dr. Davidow and Cumberland liable and awarded these three plaintiffs combined compensatory damages of 
$60 million for all liability theories, an additional combined $180 million in trebled damages for violation of the VCPA, and an additional combined 
$120 million in punitive damages. Cumberland is evaluating all legal options and intends to challenge this verdict, including the amounts awarded in 
the verdict, in post-trial proceedings and on appeal. Based upon Virginia law, we expect that the punitive damage amount should be reduced to a 
combined maximum of $1.05 million as a matter of law. There are approximately 40 additional plaintiffs making similar allegations with claims 
pending in the Cumberland Litigation. We expect that the trials for the remaining plaintiffs, as well as any additional plaintiffs, will be scheduled at 
various times over the next several years and will continue to be tried in small groups.  
We are uncertain as to the ultimate financial exposure related to the Pavilion and Cumberland matters (which relate to occurrences in the 2020 
policy year) and we can make no assurances regarding timing or substance of their outcome, or the amount of damages that may be ultimately held 
recoverable after post-judgment proceedings and appeals. As of December 31, 2024, without reduction for any potential amounts related to the Pavilion and
Cumberland matters, the Company and its subsidiaries have aggregate insurance coverage of approximately $221 million remaining under commercial 
policies for matters applicable to the 2020 policy year (in excess of the applicable self-insured retention amounts of $10 million per single occurrence/$25 
million for multi-plaintiff matters for professional liability claims and $3 million per occurrence for general liability claims). In the event the resolution of 
the Pavilion and/or Cumberland matters exhausts all or a significant portion of the remaining commercial insurance coverage available to the Company and 
its subsidiaries related to other matters that occurred in 2020, or the Pavilion and Cumberland matters cause the posting of large bonds or other collateral 
during the appeal processes, our future results of operations and capital resources would be materially adversely impacted. 

 
22We are unable to predict the outcome of these matters or to reasonably estimate the amount or range of any such loss; however, these lawsuits and 
the related publicity and news articles that have been published concerning these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 
condition, results of operations and/or cash flows which in turn could cause a decline in our stock price. In an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, 
we may choose to negotiate a settlement. Amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. 
All professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and 
general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of 
losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts and jury verdicts, estimates of incurred but not reported claims based on historical 
experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance policies. All relevant information, including our own historical 
experience, applicable per occurrence and aggregate self-insured retentions, and limitations and exclusions pursuant to our commercial insurance policies, 
is used in estimating our expected liability for self-insured claims. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and 
general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Given our 
significant exposure to professional and general liability claims, there can be no assurance that a sharp increase in the number and/or severity of claims 
asserted against us, and/or reductions in the amount of commercial coverage available to us, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of 
operations.  In addition, our commercial insurance coverage for the period commencing in March, 2025, contains less favorable terms than previous years 
including coverage exclusions for incidents involving sexual molestation or abuse, higher premiums and potentially lower aggregate limitations. 
We are and may become subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown, which may relate to past, present and future facts, events, 
circumstances and occurrences. Should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our legal proceedings or other loss contingencies, or if successful 
claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and 
liquidity. 
In particular, government investigations, as well as qui tam and stockholder lawsuits, may lead to material fines, penalties, damages payments or 
other sanctions, including exclusion from government healthcare programs. The federal False Claims Act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or 
whistleblower, lawsuits on behalf of the government against companies alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. These private 
parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of whistleblower lawsuits that have been filed against 
providers has increased significantly in recent years. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of 
which we are not aware. Settlements of lawsuits involving Medicare and Medicaid issues routinely require both monetary payments and corporate integrity 
agreements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.
If any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become 
ineligible to receive reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid.
The construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the 
adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and 
environmental protection. Additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance 
with these various standards.
All of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and 
certified under the Medicare program. The effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid 
programs. We believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and 
standards. However, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medicaid 
programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected.
State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand.
Certain states in which we operate hospitals have certificates of need (“CON”) laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, 
construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. Our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to 
complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare or Medicaid 
programs, result in the revocation of a facility’s license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business.
In addition, significant CON reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide 
exemptions of various services from review requirements. In the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but 
we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations.
Changes U.S. and other countries’ trade policies and other factors beyond our control may adversely impact our business and operating results.

 
23Changes in laws or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, and in particular increased trade restrictions, tariffs or taxes on imports from where 
our import products or materials (either directly or through our suppliers) could have an impact on our competitive position, business operations and 
financial results. In February 2025, the U.S. government imposed or threatened to impose new tariffs, including on imported products from Mexico, 
Canada and China. The impact of these tariffs is subject to a number of factors, including the effective date and duration of such tariffs, changes in the 
amount, scope and nature of the tariffs in the future, any retaliatory responses to such actions that the target countries may take and any mitigating actions 
that may become available. If significant tariffs or other restrictions are imposed on our imported pharmaceutical ingredients, medical devices, medical 
equipment and their ingredients and components, there could be significant strain on our supply chains, causing major disruptions in procurement processes 
and contract negotiations with suppliers due to increased costs, pricing volatility, longer procurement lead times and supply shortages stemming from 
increased production costs and import restrictions.  As a result, we have to attempt to shift increased costs onto insurers and patients (in the form of higher 
service charges), reduce procurement volumes and delay equipment upgrades to mitigate financial strain. While we continue to evaluate the potential 
impact of the new tariffs on our business, given the uncertainty regarding the scope and duration of any new tariffs, as well as the potential for additional 
tariffs or trade barriers by the U.S., Mexico, Canada, China or other countries, we can provide no assurance that any strategies we implement to mitigate 
the impact of such tariffs or other trade actions will be successful.
Risks Related to Information Technology
A cyber security incident could cause a violation of HIPAA, breach of patient or other persons privacy, or other negative impacts.
We rely extensively on our information technology (“IT”) systems to manage clinical and financial data, communicate with our patients, payers, 
vendors and other third parties and summarize and analyze operating results. In addition, we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and 
utilize electronic health records and to become meaningful users of health information technology pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009. Our IT systems, and the networks and information systems of third parties that we rely on, are subject to damage or interruption from power 
outages, facility damage, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches including credit card or personally identifiable 
information breaches, vandalism, theft, natural disasters, catastrophic events, human error and potential cyber threats, including malicious codes, worms, 
phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, ransomware and other sophisticated cyber-attacks, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all 
eventualities. Our systems, in turn, interface with and rely on third-party systems that we do not control, including medical devices and other processes 
supporting the interoperability of healthcare infrastructures. Third parties to whom we outsource certain of our functions, or with whom our systems 
interface and who may, in some instances, store our sensitive and confidential data, are also subject to the risks outlined above and may not have or use 
controls effective to protect such information. An attack, breach or other system disruption affecting any of these third parties could similarly harm our 
business. 
As cyber criminals continue to become more sophisticated through evolution of their tactics, techniques and procedures, we have taken, and will 
continue to take, additional preventive measures to strengthen the cyber defenses of our networks and data.  Although we continue to regularly review and 
enhance our IT systems and cybersecurity controls, we and our third-party provider have experienced, and may experience in the future, cybersecurity 
incidents. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 (as filed on February 27, 2024) for 
information regarding the 2024 cyber incident at UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and the cyber incident we experienced in 2020. While to date no 
incident had a material impact on our operations or financial results, we cannot guarantee that material incidents will not occur in the future. If any of our 
or our third-party service providers’ systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to 
repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data such as protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws and 
proprietary business information and interruptions or disruptions and delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could materially and 
adversely affect our businesses and results of operations and could result in significant penalties or fines, litigation, loss of customers, significant damage to 
our reputation and business, and other losses. In the event of a material breach or cyber-attack, the associated expenses and losses may exceed our current 
insurance coverage for such events. In addition, some adverse consequences are not insurable, such as reputational harm and third-party business 
interruption. In addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or 
misappropriation of public health information, other confidential data or proprietary business information. Further, consumer confidence in the integrity, 
availability and confidentiality of information systems and information, including patient personal information and critical operations data, in the healthcare 
industry generally could be impacted to the extent there are successful cyberattacks at other healthcare services companies, which could have a material 
adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.
Risks Related to the Market Conditions and Liquidity
Our revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control.
Our revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians’ clinical decisions and availability, payer programs shifting to 
a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme 
low temperatures, hurricanes and tornadoes, earthquakes, climate change, current local economic and demographic changes. We have a high concentration 
of facilities in various geographic areas, including states that have 

 
24a potentially higher risk of experiencing events such as severe weather conditions and earthquakes. Given the location of our facilities, we are particularly 
susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase, or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, wildfires, earthquakes, or 
tornadoes. Any significant loss due to a natural disaster may not be covered by insurance and may lead to an increase in the cost of insurance or 
unavailability on acceptable terms. Climate change may also have effects on our business by increasing the cost of property insurance or making coverage 
unavailable on acceptable terms. To the extent that significant changes in the climate occur in areas where our facilities are located, we may experience 
increased frequency of severe weather conditions or natural disasters or other changes to weather patterns, all of which may result in physical damage to or 
a decrease in demand for properties affected by these conditions. Should the impact of climate change be material in nature or occur for lengthy periods of 
time, our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or cash flow may be adversely affected. In addition, government regulation intended to 
mitigate the impact of climate change, severe weather patterns, or natural disasters could result in additional required capital expenditures to comply with 
such regulation without a corresponding increase in our revenues. In addition, technological developments and pharmaceutical improvements may reduce 
the demand for healthcare services or the profitability of the services we offer.  
A worsening of economic and employment conditions in the United States could materially affect our business and future results of operations.
Our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is 
dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. Worsening of economic conditions, including inflation and rising interest rates, may 
result in a higher unemployment rate which may increase the number of individuals without health insurance. As a result, our facilities may experience a 
decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or an increase in services provided to uninsured patients. These factors 
could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results.
In addition, as of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $3.9 billion of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. Should the 
revenues and financial results of our acute care and/or behavioral health care facilities be materially, unfavorably impacted due to, among other things, a 
worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the United States that could negatively impact our patient volumes and reimbursement rates, a 
continued rise in the unemployment rate and increases in the number of uninsured patients treated at our facilities, we may incur future charges to 
recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.
Continuing Inflationary Pressures continue to increase our operating costs and we may not be able to pass on increases in costs commensurate with 
these increases in costs.
We are experiencing inflationary pressures, primarily in personnel costs, and we anticipate continuing impacts on other cost areas within the next 
twelve months. The extent of any future impacts from inflation on our business and our results of operations will be dependent upon how long the elevated 
inflation levels persist and the extent to which the rate of inflation further increases, if at all, neither of which we are able to predict. If elevated levels of 
inflation were to persist or if the rate of inflation were to accelerate, our expenses could increase faster than anticipated and we may utilize our capital 
resources sooner than expected. Further, given the complexities of the reimbursement landscape in which we operate, our ability to pass on increased costs 
associated with providing healthcare to Medicare and Medicaid patients is limited due to various federal, state and local laws, which in certain 
circumstances, limit our ability to increase prices, commercial payers may be unwilling or unable to increase reimbursement rates commensurate with the 
inflationary impacts on our costs. 
We continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. Such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on 
investment relating to our capital projects.
The cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. As we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and 
operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large 
amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. Although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by 
determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction 
continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained.
The deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and 
terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed.
We require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, 
expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. We believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, 
improve and equip our existing hospitals. We cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be 
available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business.

 
25To fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as 
borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility. If any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, 
which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition.  The increase in interest rates has substantially increased 
our borrowing costs and reduced our ability to access the capital markets on favorable terms.  Additional increases in interest rates and the effect on capital 
markets could adversely affect our ability to carry out our strategy.
Risks Related to Our Common Stock
The number of outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock is subject to potential increases or decreases.
At December 31, 2024, 24.4 million shares of Class B Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of Class A, C and D 
Common Stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase Class B Common Stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive 
plans. Class A, C and D Common Stock are convertible on a share for share basis into Class B Common Stock.  To the extent that these shares were 
converted into or exercised for shares of Class B Common Stock, the number of shares of Class B Common Stock available for trading in the public market 
place would increase substantially and the current holders of Class B Common Stock would own a smaller percentage of that class.
In addition, from time-to-time, our Board of Directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our Class B Common 
Stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. Such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding 
shares of our Class B Common Stock. Pursuant to our stock repurchase program, shares of our Class B Common Stock may be repurchased, from time to 
time as conditions allow, on the open market or in negotiated private transactions. There is no expiration date for our stock repurchase programs.  
In July 2024, our Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion increase to our stock repurchase program.  During 2024, in conjunction with this 
program, we have repurchased approximately 3.0 million shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $599 million. As of December 31, 2024, we had an 
aggregate available repurchase authorization of approximately $824 million. 
Our ability to repurchase shares will depend upon, among other factors, our cash flows from operations, our available capital and potential future 
capital requirements for strategic transactions, including acquisitions, debt service requirements, and investing in our existing markets as well as our results 
of operations, financial condition, interest rates, our access to the capital markets and other factors beyond our control that our Board of Directors may 
deem relevant. A suspension or elimination of our share repurchase could have a negative effect on our stock price.
Conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through 
the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock. Based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the 
market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on 
our future basic and diluted earnings per share.
The right to elect the majority of our Board of Directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of Class A 
and C Common Stock, the majority of which is owned by Alan B. Miller, Executive Chairman of our Board of Directors.
Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of Class A Common Stock vote as a class 
with the holders of Class C Common Stock, and holders of Class B Common Stock vote as a class with holders of Class D Common Stock, with holders of 
all classes of our Common Stock entitled to one vote per share.
As of March 18, 2024, the shares of Class A and Class C Common Stock, which constituted 10.8% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our 
Common Stock, had the right to elect five members of the Board of Directors and constituted 90.5% of our general voting power as of that date. Also as of 
that date, the shares of Class B and Class D Common Stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options), which constituted 89.2% of the 
outstanding shares of our Common Stock, had the right to elect two members of the Board of Directors and constituted 9.5% of our general voting power 
as of that date.
As to matters other than the election of directors, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that holders of Class A, Class B, Class C and 
Class D Common Stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law.
Each share of Class A Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of Class B Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to 
one-tenth of a vote; each share of Class C Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of Class C Common Stock holds a 
number of shares of Class A Common Stock equal to ten times the number of shares of Class C Common Stock that holder holds); and each share of Class 
D Common Stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of Class D Common Stock holds a number of shares of Class B Common 
Stock equal to ten times the number of shares of Class D Common Stock that holder holds).
In the event a holder of Class C or Class D Common Stock holds a number of shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock, respectively, less than 
ten times the number of shares of Class C or Class D Common Stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of 
Class C Common Stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of Class D Common Stock, 

 
26which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock, respectively, held by that holder. The Board of 
Directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of Class A or 
Class B Common Stock as Class C or Class D Common Stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records.
Since a substantial majority of the Class A shares and Class C shares are controlled by Mr. Alan B. Miller and members of his family, one of whom 
is Marc D. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer, President and a director, and they can elect a majority of our company’s directors and effect or reject most 
actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management 
of our company.
In addition, because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control 
transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely 
affected.
ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
ITEM 1C. Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity risk management and strategy
Protecting our data, which includes information related to our patients, members, and customers, is a primary area of our focus.  Given the critical 
nature of this information, we have developed and implemented a robust cybersecurity risk management program to assess, identify, and manage risks 
associated with cybersecurity threats as identified in Item 106(a) of Regulation S-K. Cybersecurity is an important and integrated part of our risk 
management program that identifies, monitors and mitigates business, operational and legal risks. 
 This program has a multi-tier risk management structure that includes regular reviews of laws, policies, vulnerabilities, and resource levels to 
address risks facing our organization.  Such risks include operational, intellectual property theft, fraud, risks that have potential unfavorable impacts on our 
employees and/or patients, and violation of data privacy or security laws. 
To address cybersecurity risks facing our organization, we have adopted a “continuous risk assessment” process. We engage a third party to conduct 
a bi-annual National Institute of Technology-Cyber Security Framework assessment to determine the effectiveness of our program and related controls.  
The results of that assessment are shared with management, which drives prioritization and investment in resources to address those risks.  Likewise, 
annual penetration tests occur to review the efficacy of our technical controls, results which are reviewed by management and resolved in a timely manner. 
Other factors that feed into our risk management practices are also operational events and incidents, which can lead to controls being reviewed and 
enhanced.
 We also have a mature incident response process in place in the event a cybersecurity incident occurs.  This process defines roles, responsibilities 
and action plans designed to contain and eradicate the issue and then restore systems in the event of a major disruption. Regularly, we conduct tabletop 
exercises to simulate responses to an incident and implement any insight gained from those exercises to improve our recovery practices. As part of these 
processes, we regularly engage with assessors, consultants, auditors, and other third parties to review our cybersecurity program to help identify areas for 
continued focus, improvement, and compliance.
We have a commercial cybersecurity insurance policy that provides for coverage for losses sustained from cybersecurity incidents, subject to certain 
deductibles and limitations. However, costs and damages associated with cybersecurity incidents could exceed our commercial insurance coverage which 
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.    
Third parties who provide services and solutions to our organization are also a source of cyber risk. Through a third-party risk management 
program, we review risks associated with these third parties through contractual reviews, vendor risk assessments, and continual risk reviews by monitoring 
the cybersecurity risk exposure these third parties pose and implementing remediation where necessary.
Based on the information available as of the date of this Form 10-K, during our fiscal year 2024 and through the date of this filing, we did not 
identify any risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incidents (as such terms are defined in Item 106(a) of 
Regulation S-K), that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our business strategy, results of operations or 
financial condition. For more information on risks to us from cybersecurity threats, see “Risks Related to Information Technology - A cyber security 
incident could cause a violation of HIPAA, breach of patient or other persons privacy, or other negative impacts.” under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” 
Governance of Cybersecurity

 
27Cybersecurity is an integral part of our risk management program and is an area of focus for our Board of Directors and management.  The Audit 
Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for the oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats.  Members of the Audit Committee receive updates, 
as warranted, including quarterly updates from our Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”) regarding matters of cybersecurity, such as key risks 
facing the healthcare industry and our company, core topics, review of incidents, as well as progress against key information security initiatives. Senior 
executive leadership also engage in ad-hoc discussions with management on cybersecurity topics. In addition, our Board of Directors are provided with an 
annual report regarding cybersecurity information and related topics.
Our cybersecurity risk management and strategy processes are overseen by our CISO along with leaders from our Information Security, 
Compliance, Legal and Internal Auditing teams. Such individuals have an average of over 20 years of prior work experience in various roles involving 
information technology, including security, auditing, compliance, systems and programming. These individuals monitor the prevention, mitigation, 
detection and remediation of cybersecurity incidents through their management of, and participation in, the cybersecurity risk management and strategy 
processes described above, including the operation of our incident response plan.  
ITEM 2. Properties
Executive and Administrative Offices and Commercial Health Insurer
We own various office buildings in King of Prussia and Wayne, Pennsylvania, Brentwood, Tennessee, Denton, Texas and Reno, Nevada. 
Facilities 
The following tables set forth the name, location, type of facility and, for acute care hospitals and behavioral health care facilities, the number of 
licensed beds: 
 
 
Acute Care Hospitals 
 
 
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Number of
Beds 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
Aiken Regional Medical Centers (1)  Aiken, South Carolina 211 Leased
Aurora Pavilion Behavioral Health Services (1)  Aiken, South Carolina 62 Leased
ER at Sweetwater  North Augusta, South Carolina — Owned
Centennial Hills Hospital Medical Center  Las Vegas, Nevada 339 Owned
ER at Valley Vista  North Las Vegas, Nevada — Owned
ER at West Craig  Las Vegas, Nevada — Owned
Corona Regional Medical Center  Corona, California 259 Owned
Desert View Hospital  Pahrump, Nevada 25 Owned
Doctors Hospital of Laredo (6)  Laredo, Texas 183 Owned
Doctors Hospital Emergency Room Saunders  Laredo, Texas — Owned
Doctors Hospital Emergency Room South  Laredo, Texas — Leased
Doctors Hospital Emergency Room Wright Ranch  Laredo, Texas — Owned
Fort Duncan Regional Medical Center  Eagle Pass, Texas 101 Owned
The George Washington University Hospital (17)  Washington, D.C. 395 Leased
Henderson Hospital  Henderson, Nevada 303 Owned
ER at Cadence  Henderson, Nevada — Owned
ER at Green Valley Ranch  Henderson, Nevada — Owned
Lakewood Ranch Medical Center  Lakewood Ranch, Florida 120 Owned
ER at Fruitville  Sarasota, Florida — Owned
Manatee Memorial Hospital  Bradenton, Florida 295 Owned
          ER at Palma Sola  Bradenton, Florida — Owned
          ER at Sun City Center  Wimauma, Florida — Owned
          Manatee ER at Bayshore Gardens  Bradenton, Florida — Owned
Northern Nevada Medical Center  Sparks, Nevada 124 Owned

 
28Name of Facility
  Location 
 Number of
Beds 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
          Northwest Specialty Hospital (Behavioral Health)  Reno, Nevada 70 Owned
Sierra Medical Center  Reno, Nevada 158 Owned
ER at Damonte Ranch  Reno, Nevada — Owned
ER at McCarran NW  Reno, Nevada — Owned
          ER at Spanish Springs  Sparks, Nevada — Owned
Northwest Texas Healthcare System  Amarillo, Texas 405 Owned
Northwest Texas Healthcare System Behavioral Health  Amarillo, Texas 90 Owned
Northwest Emergency at Tascosa  Amarillo, Texas — Owned
Northwest Emergency at Town Square  Amarillo, Texas — Owned
Northwest Emergency on Georgia  Amarillo, Texas — Owned
Palmdale Regional Medical Center  Palmdale, California 184 Owned
South Texas Health System (2)     
South Texas Health System Edinburg/South Texas Health System 
Children’s (2)  Edinburg, Texas 294 Owned
South Texas Health System Behavioral (2)  Edinburg, Texas 134 Owned
South Texas Health System Heart (2)  McAllen, Texas 60 Owned
South Texas Health System McAllen (1) (2)  McAllen, Texas 431 Leased
South Texas Health System ER Alamo (2)  Alamo, Texas — Owned
South Texas Health System ER McColl (2)  Edinburg, Texas — Owned
South Texas Health System ER Mission (1) (2)  Mission, Texas — Leased
South Texas Health System ER Monte Cristo (2)  Edinburg, Texas — Owned
South Texas Health System ER Pharr (2)  Pharr, Texas — Owned
South Texas Health System ER Ware Road (2)  McAllen, Texas — Owned
South Texas Health System ER Weslaco (1) (2)  Weslaco, Texas — Leased
Southwest Healthcare System     
Southwest Healthcare Inland Valley Hospital  Wildomar, California 120 Owned
Southwest Healthcare Rancho Springs Hospital  Murrieta, California 120 Owned
Spring Valley Hospital Medical Center  Las Vegas, Nevada 364 Owned
ER at Blue Diamond  Las Vegas, Nevada — Owned
Valley Health Specialty Hospital  Las Vegas, Nevada 66 Owned
St. Mary’s Regional Medical Center  Enid, Oklahoma 229 Owned
Summerlin Hospital Medical Center  Las Vegas, Nevada 490 Owned
ER at South Summerlin  Las Vegas, Nevada — Owned
Temecula Valley Hospital  Temecula, California 140 Owned
Texoma Medical Center  Denison, Texas 354 Owned
TMC Behavioral Health Center  Sherman, Texas 60 Owned
ER at Anna  Anna, Texas — Owned
ER at Sherman  Sherman, Texas — Owned
Valley Hospital Medical Center  Las Vegas, Nevada 306 Owned
Elite Medical Center (ER)  Las Vegas, Nevada — Owned
ER at Desert Springs  Las Vegas, Nevada — Owned
ER at North Las Vegas  North Las Vegas, Nevada — Owned
Wellington Regional Medical Center (1)  Wellington, Florida 235 Leased
ER at Westlake  Westlake, Florida        — Leased
West Henderson Hospital…………………………………..  Henderson, Nevada 150 Owned
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inpatient Behavioral Health Care Facilities 
 
 

 
29United States:     
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Number of
Beds 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
Alabama Clinical Schools  Birmingham, Alabama 80 Owned
Alliance Health Center  Meridian, Mississippi 214 Owned
Anchor Hospital  Atlanta, Georgia 122 Owned
Arbour Hospital  Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts 142 Owned
Arrowhead Behavioral Health (14)  Maumee, Ohio 48 Owned
Aspen Grove Behavioral Hospital  Orem, Utah 80 Owned
Austin Oaks Hospital  Austin, Texas 80 Owned
Beaumont Behavioral Health (16)  Dearborn, Michigan 144 Leased
Behavioral Hospital of Bellaire  Houston, Texas 124 Leased
Belmont Pines Hospital  Youngstown, Ohio 127 Owned
Benchmark Behavioral Health Systems  Woods Cross, Utah 94 Owned
BHC Alhambra Hospital  Rosemead, California 115 Owned
Black Bear Lodge  Sautee Nacoochee, Georgia 115 Owned
Bloomington Meadows Hospital  Bloomington, Indiana 78 Owned
Brentwood Behavioral Healthcare  Flowood, Mississippi 133 Owned
Brentwood Hospital  Shreveport, Louisiana 260 Owned
The Bridgeway  North Little Rock, Arkansas 127 Owned
The Brook Hospital—Dupont  Louisville, Kentucky 88 Owned
The Brook Hospital—KMI  Louisville, Kentucky 110 Owned
Brooke Glen Behavioral Hospital  Fort Washington, Pennsylvania 146 Owned
Brynn Marr Hospital  Jacksonville, North Carolina 102 Owned
Calvary Healing Center  Phoenix, Arizona 68 Owned
Canyon Creek Behavioral Health (1)  Temple, Texas 102 Leased
Canyon Ridge Hospital  Chino, California 157 Owned
The Carolina Center for Behavioral Health  Greer, South Carolina 156 Owned
Cedar Creek Hospital  St. Johns, Michigan 69 Owned
Cedar Hills Hospital (7)  Portland, Oregon 98 Owned
Cedar Ridge Behavioral Hospital  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 60 Owned
Cedar Ridge Behavioral Hospital at Bethany  Bethany, Oklahoma 56 Owned
Cedar Ridge Residential Treatment Center  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 56 Owned
Cedar Springs Hospital  Colorado Springs, Colorado 110 Owned
Centennial Peaks Hospital  Louisville, Colorado 104 Owned
Center for Change  Orem, Utah 66 Owned
Central Florida Behavioral Hospital  Orlando, Florida 174 Owned
Clarion Psychiatric Center  Clarion, Pennsylvania 112 Owned
Clive Behavioral Health (1) (11)  Clive, Iowa 100 Leased
Coastal Behavioral Health  Savannah, Georgia 50 Owned
Coastal Harbor Treatment Center  Savannah, Georgia 145 Owned
Columbus Behavioral Center for Children and Adolescents  Columbus, Indiana 57 Owned
Compass Intervention Center  Memphis, Tennessee 148 Owned
Copper Hills Youth Center  West Jordan, Utah 164 Owned
Coral Shores Behavioral Health  Stuart, Florida 80 Owned
Cumberland Hall Hospital  Hopkinsville, Kentucky 97 Owned
Cumberland Hospital for Children and Adolescents  New Kent, Virginia 108 Owned
Cypress Creek Hospital  Houston, Texas 128 Owned
Del Amo Behavioral Health System  Torrance, California 166 Owned
Diamond Grove Center  Louisville, Mississippi 61 Owned
Dover Behavioral Health System  Dover, Delaware 104 Owned
El Paso Behavioral Health System  El Paso, Texas 166 Owned
Emerald Coast Behavioral Hospital  Panama City, Florida 86 Owned
Fairfax     
Fairfax Behavioral Health  Kirkland, Washington 157 Owned
Fairfax Behavioral Health—Everett  Everett, Washington 30 Leased
Fairfax Behavioral Health—Monroe  Monroe, Washington 34 Leased
Fairmount Behavioral Health System  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 239 Owned

 
30United States:     
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Number of
Beds 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
Forest View Hospital  Grand Rapids, Michigan 108 Owned
Fort Lauderdale Behavioral Health Center  Fort Lauderdale, Florida 182 Owned
Foundations Behavioral Health  Doylestown, Pennsylvania 122 Leased
Foundations for Living  Mansfield, Ohio 84 Owned
Fox Run Center  St. Clairsville, Ohio 100 Owned
Fremont Hospital  Fremont, California 148 Owned
Friends Hospital (13)  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 219 Owned
Fuller Hospital  Attleboro, Massachusetts 109 Owned
Garfield Park Behavioral Hospital  Chicago, Illinois 88 Owned
Glen Oaks Hospital  Greenville, Texas 54 Owned
Granite Hills Hospital  West Allis, Wisconsin 120 Leased
Gulf Coast Treatment Center  Fort Walton Beach, Florida 28 Owned
Gulfport Behavioral Health System  Gulfport, Mississippi 109 Owned
Hampton Behavioral Health Center  Westampton, New Jersey 120 Owned
Harbor Point Behavioral Health Center  Portsmouth, Virginia 186 Owned
Hartgrove Behavioral Health System  Chicago, Illinois 160 Owned
Havenwyck Hospital  Auburn Hills, Michigan 253 Owned
Heartland Behavioral Health Services  Nevada, Missouri 137 Owned
Heritage Oaks Hospital  Sacramento, California 125 Owned
Heritage Oaks Patient Enrichment Center  Sacramento, California 16 Owned
Hermitage Hall  Nashville, Tennessee 111 Owned
Hickory Trail Hospital  DeSoto, Texas 86 Owned
Highlands Behavioral Health System  Littleton, Colorado 86 Owned
Hill Crest Behavioral Health Services  Birmingham, Alabama 221 Owned
Holly Hill Hospital  Raleigh, North Carolina 296 Owned
The Horsham Clinic  Ambler, Pennsylvania 206 Owned
HRI Hospital  Brookline, Massachusetts 66 Owned
The Hughes Center  Danville, Virginia 96 Owned
Inland Northwest Behavioral Health (9)  Spokane, Washington 100 Owned
Intermountain Hospital  Boise, Idaho 155 Owned
Kempsville Center for Behavioral Health  Norfolk, Virginia 106 Owned
KeyStone Center  Chester, Pennsylvania 153 Owned
Kingwood Pines Hospital  Kingwood, Texas 116 Owned
La Amistad Behavioral Health Services  Maitland, Florida 85 Owned
Lakeside Behavioral Health System  Memphis, Tennessee 373 Owned
Lancaster Behavioral Health Hospital (8)  Lancaster, Pennsylvania 126 Owned
Laurel Heights Hospital  Atlanta, Georgia 132 Owned
Laurel Oaks Behavioral Health Center  Dothan, Alabama 118 Owned
Laurel Ridge Treatment Center  San Antonio, Texas 330 Owned
Liberty Point Behavioral Healthcare  Stauton, Virginia 42 Owned
Lighthouse Behavioral Health Hospital  Conway, South Carolina 105 Owned
Lighthouse Care Center of Augusta  Augusta, Georgia 82 Owned
Lincoln Prairie Behavioral Health Center  Springfield, Illinois 97 Owned
Lincoln Trail Behavioral Health System  Radcliff, Kentucky 140 Owned
Mayhill Hospital  Denton, Texas 59 Leased
McDowell Center for Children  Dyersburg, Tennessee 32 Owned
The Meadows Psychiatric Center  Centre Hall, Pennsylvania 119 Owned
Meridell Achievement Center  Liberty Hill, Texas 134 Owned
Mesilla Valley Hospital  Las Cruces, New Mexico 120 Owned
Michael’s House  Palm Springs, California 60 Owned
Michiana Behavioral Health  Plymouth, Indiana 83 Owned
Midwest Center for Youth and Families  Kouts, Indiana 75 Owned
Millwood Hospital  Arlington, Texas 134 Leased
Mountain Youth Academy  Mountain City, Tennessee 122 Owned
Newport News Behavioral Health Center  Newport News, Virginia 132 Owned

 
31United States:     
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Number of
Beds 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
North Spring Behavioral Healthcare  Leesburg, Virginia 127 Leased
North Star Hospital  Anchorage, Alaska 74 Owned
Chris Kyle Patriots Hospital  Anchorage, Alaska 66 Owned
North Star DeBarr Residential Treatment Center  Anchorage, Alaska 30 Owned
North Star Palmer Residential Treatment Center  Palmer, Alaska 30 Owned
Oak Plains Academy  Ashland City, Tennessee 60 Owned
Okaloosa Youth Academy  Crestview, Florida 72 Leased
Old Vineyard Behavioral Health Services  Winston-Salem, North Carolina 164 Owned
Palm Point Behavioral Health  Titusville, FL 74 Owned
Palm Shores Behavioral Health Center  Bradenton, Florida 65 Owned
Palmetto Lowcountry Behavioral Health  North Charleston, South Carolina 108 Owned
Palo Verde Behavioral Health  Tucson, Arizona 84 Owned
Parkwood Behavioral Health System  Olive Branch, Mississippi 148 Owned
The Pavilion Behavioral Health System  Champaign, Illinois 122 Owned
Peachford Hospital  Atlanta, Georgia 246 Owned
Pembroke Hospital  Pembroke, Massachusetts 120 Owned
Pinnacle Pointe Behavioral Healthcare System  Little Rock, Arkansas 127 Owned
Poplar Springs Hospital  Petersburg, Virginia 208 Owned
Prairie St John’s  Fargo, North Dakota 132 Owned
PRIDE Institute  Eden Prairie, Minnesota 42 Owned
Provo Canyon School  Provo, Utah 250 Owned
Psychiatric Institute of Washington  Washington, D.C. 130 Owned
Quail Run Behavioral Health  Phoenix, Arizona 116 Owned
The Ridge Behavioral Health System  Lexington, Kentucky 110 Owned
Rivendell Behavioral Health Hospital  Bowling Green, Kentucky 125 Owned
Rivendell Behavioral Health Services of Arkansas  Benton, Arkansas 80 Owned
River Oaks Hospital  Harahan, Louisiana 126 Owned
River Park Hospital  Huntington, West Virginia 187 Owned
River Point Behavioral Health  Jacksonville, Florida 84 Owned
River Vista Behavioral Health  Madera, California 128 Owned
Riveredge Hospital  Forest Park, Illinois 210 Owned
Rockford Center  Newark, Delaware 148 Owned
Rolling Hills Hospital  Franklin, Tennessee 130 Owned
Roxbury Treatment Center  Shippensburg, Pennsylvania 112 Owned
Saint Simons By-The-Sea  Saint Simons Island, Georgia 101 Owned
Salt Lake Behavioral Health  Salt Lake City, Utah 118 Leased
San Marcos Treatment Center  San Marcos, Texas 265 Owned
SandyPines Residential Treatment Center  Jupiter, Florida 149 Owned
Sierra Vista Hospital  Sacramento, California 171 Owned
Skywood Recovery  Augusta, Michigan 100 Owned
Southeast Behavioral Health (15)  Cape Girardeau, Missouri 102 Owned
Spring Mountain Sahara  Las Vegas, Nevada 30 Owned
Spring Mountain Treatment Center  Las Vegas, Nevada 110 Owned
Springwoods Behavioral Health  Fayetteville, Arkansas 80 Owned
Stonington Institute  North Stonington, Connecticut 64 Owned
Streamwood Behavioral Healthcare System  Streamwood, Illinois 178 Owned
Summit Oaks Hospital  Summit, New Jersey 126 Owned
SummitRidge Hospital  Lawrenceville, Georgia 106 Owned
Suncoast Behavioral Health Center  Bradenton, Florida 60 Owned
Texas NeuroRehab Center  Austin, Texas 137 Owned
Three Rivers Behavioral Health  West Columbia, South Carolina 129 Owned
Three Rivers Midlands  West Columbia, South Carolina 64 Owned
Turning Point Care Center  Moultrie, Georgia 79 Owned
University Behavioral Center  Orlando, Florida 112 Owned
University Behavioral Health of Denton  Denton, Texas 104 Owned

 
32United States:     
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Number of
Beds 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
Valle Vista Health System  Greenwood, Indiana 140 Owned
Valley Hospital  Phoenix, Arizona 122 Owned
Via Linda Behavioral Hospital (12)  Scottsdale, Arizona 120 Leased
The Vines Hospital  Ocala, Florida 98 Owned
Virginia Beach Psychiatric Center  Virginia Beach, Virginia 100 Owned
Wekiva Springs Center  Jacksonville, Florida 120 Owned
Wellstone Regional Hospital  Jeffersonville, Indiana 100 Owned
West Oaks Hospital  Houston, Texas 176 Owned
Willow Springs Center  Reno, Nevada 116 Owned
Windmoor Healthcare of Clearwater  Clearwater, Florida 144 Owned
Windsor Laurelwood Center for Behavioral Medicine  Willoughby, Ohio 160 Leased
Wyoming Behavioral Institute  Casper, Wyoming 137 Owned
 
 
 
United Kingdom:     
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Number of
Beds 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
Adarna House  Bradford, UK 9 Owned
Adele Cottages  Rainworth, UK 4 Owned 
Amberwood Lodge  Dorset, UK 9 Owned
Ashbrook  Birmingham, UK 16 Owned
Ashfield House  Huddersfield, UK 6 Owned
Beacon House Lower  Bradford, UK 8 Owned
Beacon House Upper  Bradford, UK 8 Owned
Beckly  Halifax, UK 12 Owned
Beeches  Retford, UK 12 Owned
Birches  Newark, UK 6 Owned
Broughton House  Lincolnshire, UK 34 Owned
Broughton Lodge  Macclesfield, UK 20 Owned
Chaseways  Sawbridgeworth, UK 6 Owned
Cherry Tree House  Mansfield Woodhouse, UK 6 Owned
Colchester – Chestnut Court  Essex, UK 8 Owned
Conifers  Derby, UK 7 Owned
Cygnet Acer  Chesterfield, UK 14 Owned
Cygnet Acer 2  Chesterfield, UK 14 Owned
Cygnet Alders Clinic  Gloucester, UK 20 Owned
Cygnet Appletree  Meadowfield, UK 26 Owned
Cygnet Aspen Clinic  Doncaster, UK 16 Owned
Cygnet Aspen House  Doncaster, UK 20 Owned
Cygnet Bostall House  Abbey Wood, UK 6 Owned
Cygnet Brunel  Bristol, UK 32 Owned
Cygnet Cedar Vale  East Bridgeford, UK 16 Owned
Cygnet Cedars  Birmingham, UK 24 Owned
Cygnet Churchill  London, UK 57 Owned
Cygnet Delfryn House  Flintshire, UK 28 Owned
Cygnet Delfryn Lodge  Flintshire, UK 24 Owned
Cygnet Elms  Birmingham, UK 10 Owned
Cygnet Fountains  Blackburn, UK 34 Owned
Cygnet Grange  Sutton-in-Ashfield, UK 8 Owned
Cygnet Heathers  West Bromwich, UK 20 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Beckton  London, UK 62 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Bierley  Bradford, UK 63 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Blackheath  London, UK 32 Leased

 
33United Kingdom:     
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Number of
Beds 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
Cygnet Hospital—Bury  Bury, UK 187 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Clifton  Nottingham, UK 25 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Derby  Derby, UK 50 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Ealing  Ealing, UK 26 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Godden Green  Sevenoaks, UK 39 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Harrogate  Harrogate, UK 36 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Harrow  Harrow, UK 64 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Hexham  Hexham, UK 27 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Kewstoke  Kewstoke, UK 72 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Maidstone  Maidstone, UK 65 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Oldbury . Oldbury, UK 27 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Sheffield  Sheffield, UK 57 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Sherwood  Mansfield, UK 44 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Stevenage  Stevenage, UK 88 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Taunton  Taunton, UK 57 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Woking  Woking, UK 62 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Wolverhampton  Wolverhampton, UK 29 Owned
Cygnet Hospital—Wyke  Bradford, UK 52 Owned
Cygnet Hospital Colchester - Highwoods  Colchester, UK 20 Owned
Cygnet Hospital Colchester - Larch Court  Essex, UK 4 Owned
Cygnet Hospital Colchester - Oak Court  Essex, UK 12 Owned
Cygnet Hospital Colchester - Ramsey  Colchester, UK 21 Owned
Cygnet Joyce Parker Hospital  Coventry, UK 57 Owned
Cygnet Lodge  Sutton-in-Ashfield, UK 8 Owned
Cygnet Lodge—Brighouse  Brighouse, UK 25 Owned
Cygnet Lodge—Kenton  Middlesex, UK 15 Owned
Cygnet Lodge—Lewisham  London, UK 17 Owned
Cygnet Lodge—Salford  Manchester, UK 24 Owned
Cygnet Lodge—Woking  Woking, UK 32 Owned
Cygnet Manor  Shirebrook, UK 20 Owned
Cygnet Newham House  Middlesbrough, UK 20 Owned
Cygnet Nield House  Crewe, UK 30 Owned
Cygnet Oaks  Barnsley, UK 35 Owned
Cygnet Paddocks  Widnes, UK 30 Owned
Cygnet Pindar House  Barnsley, UK 22 Owned
Cygnet Raglan House  West Midlands, UK 25 Owned
Cygnet Sedgley House  Wolverhampton, UK 20 Owned
Cygnet Sedgley Lodge  Wolverhampton, UK 14 Owned
Cygnet Sherwood House  Mansfield, UK 30 Owned
Cygnet Sherwood Lodge  Mansfield, UK 17 Owned
Cygnet St. Augustine’s  Stoke on Trent, UK 32 Owned
Cygnet St. Teilo House  Gwent, UK 23 Owned
Cygnet St. Williams  Darlington, UK 12 Owned
Cygnet Storthfield House  Derbyshire, UK 22 Owned
Cygnet Victoria House  Darlington, UK 26 Owned
Cygnet Views  Matlock, UK 10 Owned
Cygnet Wallace Hospital  Dundee, UK 10 Owned
Cygnet Wast Hills  Birmingham, UK 26 Owned
Dene Brook  Rotherham, UK 13 Owned
Devon Lodge  Southampton, UK 12 Owned
Dove Valley Mews  Barnsley, UK 10 Owned
Ducks Halt  Essex, UK 5 Owned
Ellen Mhor  Dundee, UK 12 Owned
Elston House  Newark, UK 8 Owned
Fairways  Ipswich, UK 8 Owned

 
34United Kingdom:     
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Number of
Beds 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
The Fields  Sheffield, UK 54 Owned
Gables  Essex, UK 7 Owned
Gledcliffe Road  Huddersfield, UK 6 Owned
Gledholt  Huddersfield, UK 9 Owned
Gledholt Mews  Huddersfield, UK 21 Owned
Glyn House  Stoke on Trent, UK 5 Owned
Hansa Lodge  Rainham, UK 5 Owned
Hawkstone  Keighley, UK 10 Owned
Hollyhurst  Darlington, UK 19 Owned
Hope House  Hartlepool, UK 11 Owned
Kirkside House  Leeds, UK 7 Owned
Kirkside Lodge  Leeds, UK 8 Owned
Langdale Coach House  Huddersfield, UK 3 Owned
Langdale House  Huddersfield, UK 8 Owned
Lindsay House  Dundee, UK 2 Owned
Longfield House  Bradford, UK 9 Owned
Lowry House  Hyde, UK 12 Owned
Malborn & Teroan  Mansfield, UK 6 Owned
Marion House  Derby, UK 5 Owned
Meadows Mews  Tipton, UK 10 Owned
Morgan House  Stoke on Trent, UK 5 Owned
Nightingale  Dorset, UK 10 Owned
Norcott House  Liversedge, UK 11 Owned
Norcott Lodge  Liversedge, UK 9 Owned
Oakhurst Lodge  Hampshire, UK 8 Owned
Oaklands  Northumberland, UK 19 Owned
Old Leigh House  Essex, UK 7 Leased
The Orchards  Essex, UK 5 Owned
Outwood  Leeds, UK 10 Owned
Oxley Lodge  Huddersfield, UK 4 Owned
Oxley Woodhouse  Huddersfield, UK 13 Owned
Pines  Mansfield Woodhouse, UK 7 Owned
Ranaich House  Dunblane, UK 14 Owned
Redlands  Darlington, UK 5 Owned
Rhyd Alyn  Flintshire, UK 6 Owned
River View  Darlington, UK 4 Owned
Shear Meadow  Hemel Hempstead, UK 4 Owned
Sherwood Lodge Step Down  Mansfield, UK 9 Owned
The Squirrels  Hampshire, UK 9 Owned
4, 5, 7 The Sycamores  South Normanton, UK 6 Owned
15 The Sycamores  South Normanton, UK 4 Owned
Tabley House Nursing Home  Knutsford, UK 51 Leased
Thistle House  Dundee, UK 10 Owned
Thornfield Grange  Bishop Auckland, UK 9 Owned
Thornfield House  Bradford, UK 7 Owned
Thors Park  Essex, UK 14 Owned
Toller Road  Leicestershire, UK 8 Owned
Trinity House  Lockerbie, UK 13 Owned
Trinity Lodge  Lockerbie, UK 6 Owned
Tupwood Gate Nursing Home  Caterham, UK 33 Owned
Ty Alarch  Merthyr Tydfil 6 Owned
1Vincent Court  Lancashire, UK 5 Owned
Walkern Lodge  Stevenage, UK 4 Owned
Willow House  Birmingham, UK 8 Owned
Woodcross & Turls Hill  Wolverhampton, UK 8 Owned

 
35United Kingdom:     
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Number of
Beds 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
Woodrow House  Stockport, UK 9 Owned
 
 
Puerto Rico:     
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Number of
Beds 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
First Hospital Panamericano—Cidra  Cidra, Puerto Rico 165 Owned
First Hospital Panamericano—Ponce  Ponce, Puerto Rico 30 Owned
First Hospital Panamericano—San Juan  San Juan, Puerto Rico 45 Owned
     
 
Outpatient Behavioral Health Care Facilities 
 
 
United States:    
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
Arbour Counseling Services  Rockland, Massachusetts Owned
The Canyon at Santa Monica  Los Angeles, California Leased
Foundations Health High Point  High Point, North Carolina Leased
Foundations San Francisco  San Francisco, California Leased
Michael’s House Outpatient  Palm Springs, California Leased
The Pointe Outpatient Behavioral Health Services  Little Rock, Arkansas Leased
The Recovery Center  Wichita Falls, Texas Leased
Saint Louis Behavioral Medicine Institute  St. Louis, Missouri Owned
Skywood Outpatient  Royal Oak, Michigan Leased
Talbott Recovery  Atlanta, Georgia Owned
Thousand Branches Wellness, Arden Hills  Arden Hills, Minnesota Leased
Thousand Branches Wellness, Chicago Loop  Chicago, Illinois Leased
Thousand Branches Wellness, Houston  Houston, Texas Leased
Thousand Branches Wellness, Mission Valley  San Diego, California Leased
 
 
 
United Kingdom:    
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest 
 
Long Eaton Day Services  Nottingham, UK Owned
Sheffield Day Services  Sheffield, UK Owned
 
 
    
Outpatient Centers and Surgical Hospital
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest
 
    
Cancer Care Institute of Carolina  Aiken, South Carolina Owned
Cardiovascular Institute of Amarillo (19)  Amarillo, TX Leased
Cornerstone Regional Hospital (3)  Edinburg, Texas Leased
Las Vegas Institute for Advanced Surgery (19)  Las Vegas, NV Leased

 
36    
Outpatient Centers and Surgical Hospital
Name of Facility
  Location 
 Real
Property
Ownership
Interest
 
    
Manatee Diagnostic Center  Bradenton, Florida Leased
Palms Wellington Surgical Center (5)  Royal Palm Beach, Florida Leased
Personalized Radiation Oncology (18)  Reno, Nevada Leased
Quail Surgical and Pain Management Center (10)  Reno, Nevada Leased
Riverside Medical Clinic Surgery Center  Riverside, California Leased
The Surgery Center of Aiken  Aiken, South Carolina Owned
Temecula Valley Day Surgery (4)  Murrieta, California Leased
 
(1) Real property leased from Universal Health Realty Income Trust. 
(2) These entities are consolidated under one license operating as the South Texas Health System. 
(3) We manage and own a noncontrolling interest of approximately 50% in the entity that operates this facility. 
(4) We manage and own a majority interest in an LLC that owns and operates this center. 
(5) We own a noncontrolling ownership interest of approximately 50% in the entity that operates this facility that is managed by a third-party. 
(6) We hold a 93% ownership interest in this facility through both general and limited partnership interests. The remaining 7% ownership interest is 
held by unaffiliated third parties. 
(7) Land of this facility is leased. 
(8) We manage and own a noncontrolling interest of 50% in this facility. The remaining 50% ownership interest is held by an unaffiliated third party. 
Land of this facility is leased from the unaffiliated third party member. 
(9) We manage and hold an 80% ownership interest in this facility. The remaining 20% ownership interest is held by an unaffiliated third party.
(10)We hold a 51% ownership interest in this facility. The remaining 49% ownership interest is held by unaffiliated third parties.
(11)We manage and hold a 52% ownership interest in this facility. The remaining 48% ownership interest is held by an unaffiliated third party.
(12)We manage and hold a 51% ownership interest in this facility. The remaining 49% ownership interest is held by an unaffiliated third party.
(13)We manage and hold an 80% ownership interest in this facility. The remaining 20% ownership interest is held by an unaffiliated third party.
(14)We manage and hold a 70% ownership interest in this facility. The remaining 30% ownership interest is held by an unaffiliated third party.
(15)We manage and hold a 75% ownership interest in this facility. The remaining 25% ownership interest is held by an unaffiliated third party.
(16)We manage and hold a 75% ownership interest in this facility. The remaining 25% ownership interest is held by an unaffiliated third party.
(17)The land of this facility is leased pursuant to the terms of a lease that is scheduled to expire in August, 2082. The lease contains one, twenty-five 
year renewal option.
(18)We own a noncontrolling ownership interest of 30% in the entity that operates this facility that is managed by a third-party.
(19)We hold a 51% ownership interest in this facility. The remaining 49% ownership interest is held by unaffiliated third parties.
 
We own or lease medical office buildings adjoining some of our hospitals. We believe that the leases on the facilities, medical office buildings and 
other real estate leased or owned by us do not impose any material limitation on our operations. The aggregate lease payments on facilities leased by us 
were $110 million in 2024, $107 million in 2023 and $104 million in 2022.
ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings
The information regarding our legal proceedings is contained in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Commitments and Contingencies, 
as included this Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by reference. 
ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.

 
37PART II
ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Our Class B Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol UHS. Shares of our Class A, Class C and Class D 
Common Stock are not traded in any public market, but are each convertible into shares of our Class B Common Stock on a share-for-share basis.
 
The number of stockholders of record as of January 31, 2025, were as follows: 
 
Class A Common   17 
Class B Common   230 
Class C Common   1 
Class D Common   80 
 
Stock Repurchase Programs
As of January 1, 2024, we had an aggregate available repurchase authorization of $422.9 million under our stock repurchase program. In July, 2024, 
our Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion increase in our stock repurchase program. Pursuant to this program, shares of our Class B Common Stock 
may be repurchased, from time to time as conditions allow, on the open market or in negotiated private transactions. There is no expiration date for our 
stock repurchase programs.  
As reflected below, during the fourth quarter of 2024, we have repurchased approximately 1.25 million shares at an aggregate cost of approximately 
$249.6 million (average price of $199.42 per share) pursuant to the terms of our stock repurchase program. In addition, during the three-month period 
ended December 31, 2024, 2,653 shares were repurchased in connection with income tax withholding obligations resulting from stock-based compensation 
programs.  For the year ended December 31, 2024, we have repurchased approximately 2.98 million shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $598.5 
million (average price of $200.65 per share).  In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2024, 375,248 shares were repurchased in connection with 
income tax withholding obligations resulting from stock-based compensation programs.  
As of December 31, 2024, we had an aggregate available repurchase authorization of $824.4 million pursuant to our stock repurchase program.  
During the period of October 1, 2024 through December 31, 2024, we repurchased the following shares:  
 
  Additional
Dollars
Authorized
For
Repurchase
(in
thousands)   Total
number of
shares
purchased (1)  Total
number of
shares
cancelled   Average
price paid
per share
for forfeited
restricted
shares   Total
Number
of shares
purchased
as part of
publicly
announced
programs (2)  Average
price paid
per share
for shares
purchased
as part of
publicly
announced
program   Aggregate
purchase
price paid
(in thousands)  Maximum
number of
dollars that
may yet be
purchased
under the
program
(in
thousands)  
October, 2024   —   255,848   —  $ 0.01   255,000  $ 205.85  $ 52,491  $ 1,021,490 
November, 2024   —   747,874   —  $ 0.01   746,745  $ 203.71  $ 152,121  $ 869,369 
December, 2024   —   250,676   —  $ 0.01   250,000  $ 180.03  $ 45,008  $ 824,361 
Total October through
   December  $ —   1,254,398   —  $ 0.01   1,251,745  $ 199.42  $ 249,620    
 
(1) Includes shares that were repurchased in connection with income tax withholding obligations resulting from the exercise of stock options 
and the vesting of restricted stock grants. 
(2) The only publicly announced program pursuant to which the shares were repurchased was the share repurchase program described above.  
There is no other plan or program that has expired during this time period.  Also, there is no other plan or program that we have determined 
to terminate prior to expiration, or under which we do not intend to make further purchases.
Dividends
During the year ended December 31, 2024 we paid dividends of $0.80 per share.  Dividend equivalents are accrued on unvested restricted stock 
units and are paid upon vesting of the restricted stock unit. 
Our Credit Agreement contains covenants that include limitations on, among other things, dividends and stock repurchases (see below in Capital 
Resources-Credit Facilities and Outstanding Debt Securities).

 
38Equity Compensation
Refer to Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters, of this report for 
information regarding securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans.
Stock Price Performance Graph
The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the stock included 
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a Peer Group Index during the five-year period ended December 31, 2024. The graph assumes an investment of 
$100 made in our common stock and each Index as of January 1, 2020 and has been weighted based on market capitalization. Note that our common stock 
price performance shown below should not be viewed as being indicative of future performance.
Companies in the peer group, which consist of companies in the S&P 500 Index or S&P MidCap 400 Index are as follows: Acadia Healthcare 
Company, Inc., Community Health Systems, Inc., HCA Healthcare, Inc., and Tenet Healthcare Corporation.
 
 
 
Company Name / Index  2019 Base  2020   2021   2022   2023   2024  
Universal Health Services, Inc.  $ 100.00  $ 96.00  $ 91.04  $ 99.57  $ 108.37  $ 128.07 
S&P 500 Index  $ 100.00  $ 118.40  $ 152.39  $ 124.79  $ 157.59  $ 197.02 
Peer Group  $ 100.00  $ 114.05  $ 180.63  $ 167.00  $ 191.10  $ 213.16
 
ITEM 6. [RESERVED]
 

 
39ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is intended to promote an 
understanding of our operating results and financial condition.  The MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our 
consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
The MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions.  Actual results may differ materially from those 
anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those presented under Item 1A. Risk Factors, and 
below in Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors and as included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  This section generally discusses 
our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2023.  For discussion of our result of 
operations and changes in our financial condition for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, please refer to 
Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
ended December 31, 2023, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 27, 2024.    
Overview
Our principal business is owning and operating, through our subsidiaries, acute care hospitals and outpatient facilities and behavioral health care 
facilities.  
As of February 26, 2025, we owned and/or operated 359 inpatient facilities and 60 outpatient and other facilities, including the following, located in 
39 states, Washington, D.C., the United Kingdom and Puerto Rico:
Acute care facilities located in the U.S.:
• 28 inpatient acute care hospitals;
• 33 free-standing emergency departments, and;
• 10 outpatient centers & 1 surgical hospital.
Behavioral health care facilities (331 inpatient facilities and 16 outpatient facilities): 
Located in the U.S.:
• 181 inpatient behavioral health care facilities, and;
• 14 outpatient behavioral health care facilities. 
Located in the U.K.:
• 147 inpatient behavioral health care facilities, and;
• 2 outpatient behavioral health care facilities.
Located in Puerto Rico:
• 3 inpatient behavioral health care facilities.
Net revenues from our acute care hospitals, outpatient facilities and commercial health insurer accounted for 56% of our consolidated net revenues 
during 2024 and 57% during 2023. Net revenues from our behavioral health care facilities and commercial health insurer accounted for 44% of our 
consolidated net revenues during 2024 and 43% during 2023.       
Our behavioral health care facilities located in the U.K. generated net revenues of approximately $880 million in 2024 and $761 million in 2023. 
Total assets at our U.K. behavioral health care facilities were approximately $1.358 billion as of December 31, 2024 and $1.327 billion as of December 31, 
2023.      
Services provided by our hospitals include general and specialty surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics, emergency room care, radiology, oncology, 
diagnostic care, coronary care, pediatric services, pharmacy services and/or behavioral health services. We provide capital resources as well as a variety of 
management services to our facilities, including central purchasing, information services, finance and control systems, facilities planning, physician 
recruitment services, administrative personnel management, marketing and public relations.
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
You should carefully review the information contained in this Annual Report, and should particularly consider any risk factors that we set forth in 
this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, and in other reports or documents that we file from time to time with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). In this Annual Report, we state our beliefs of future events and of our future financial performance. 
This Annual Report contains “forward-looking statements” that reflect our current estimates, expectations and projections about our future results, 
performance, prospects and opportunities. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, the information concerning our possible future results 
of operations, business and growth 

 
40strategies, financing plans, expectations that regulatory developments or other matters will or will not have a material adverse effect on our business or 
financial condition, our competitive position and the effects of competition, the projected growth of the industry in which we operate, and the benefits and 
synergies to be obtained from our completed and any future acquisitions, and statements of our goals and objectives, and other similar expressions 
concerning matters that are not historical facts. Words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue,” “expects,” 
“anticipates,” “future,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “appears,” “projects” and similar expressions, or the negative of those words and 
expressions, as well as statements in future tense, identify forward-looking statements.  In evaluating those statements, you should specifically consider 
various factors, including the risks related to healthcare industry trends and those set forth herein in Item 1A. Risk Factors.  Those factors may cause our 
actual results to differ materially from any of our forward-looking statements. 
Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of 
the times at, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information is based on information available at the time and/or 
our good faith belief with respect to future events, and is subject to risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our 
control.  Many factors, including those set forth herein in Item 1A. Risk Factors, and other important factors disclosed in this report, and from time to time 
in our other filings with the SEC, could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. Such factors 
include, among other things, the following:
• the healthcare industry is labor intensive and salaries, wages and benefits are subject to inflationary pressures, as are supplies expense and 
other operating expenses. In the past, staffing shortages have, at times, required us to hire expensive temporary personnel and/or enhance 
wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other clinical staff and support personnel. At certain facilities, particularly within our 
behavioral health care segment, there have been occasions when we were unable to fill all vacant positions and, consequently, we were 
required to limit patient volumes. We have also experienced general inflationary cost increases related to certain of our other operating 
expenses. Many of these factors, which had a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations in prior years, have moderated more 
recently. However, we cannot predict future inflationary increases, which if significant, could have a material unfavorable impact on our 
future results of operations.  We have experienced inflationary pressures, primarily in personnel costs, although those pressures have 
moderated more recently. The extent of any future impacts from inflation on our business and our results of operations will be dependent 
upon how long the elevated inflation levels persist and the extent to which the rate of inflation further increases, if at all, neither of which we 
are able to predict. If elevated levels of inflation were to persist or if the rate of inflation were to accelerate, our expenses could increase 
faster than anticipated and we may utilize our capital resources sooner than expected. Further, given the complexities of the reimbursement 
landscape in which we operate, our ability to pass on increased costs associated with providing healthcare to Medicare and Medicaid patients 
is limited due to various federal, state and local laws, which in certain circumstances, limit our ability to increase prices;
• in our acute care segment, we have experienced a significant increase in hospital based physician related expenses, especially in the areas of 
emergency room care and anesthesiology. We have implemented various initiatives to mitigate the increased expense, to the degree possible, 
which has moderated the rate of increase.  However, significant increases in these physician related expenses could have a material 
unfavorable impact on our future results of operations;
• the increase in interest rates during the past few years has increased our interest expense significantly thereby reducing our free cash flow.  
As such, although interest rates have moderated more recently, the effects of increased borrowing rates have adversely impacted our results 
of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We cannot predict future changes to interest rates, however, significant increases in our 
borrowing rates could have a material unfavorable impact on our future results of operations and our ability to access the capital markets on 
favorable terms;
• President Biden signed into law fiscal year 2025 appropriations to federal agencies for continuing projects and activities through March 14, 
2025. We cannot predict whether or not there will be future legislation averting a federal government shutdown, however, our operating cash 
flows and results of operations could be materially unfavorably impacted by a federal government shutdown;
• on December 29, 2022, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, was signed into law phasing out the enhanced federal medical assistance 
percentage rate that states received during the COVID-19 public health emergency and fully eliminated the increase on December 31, 2023.  
States were also permitted to begin Medicaid eligibility redeterminations on March 31, 2023, which has resulted in a decrease in Medicaid 
enrollment;
• our ability to comply with the existing laws and government regulations, and/or changes in laws and government regulations, including the 
recently enacted and proposed significant new tariffs. Significant tariffs or other restrictions, if imposed on our imported pharmaceutical 
ingredients, medical devices, medical equipment and their ingredients and components, could escalate costs of medications, medical devices 
and medical equipment and disrupt our supply chains. While we continue to evaluate the potential impact of the new tariffs on our business, 
given the uncertainty regarding the scope and duration of any new tariffs, as well as the potential for additional tariffs or trade barriers by the 
U.S. and the 

 
41impacted foreign countries, we can provide no assurance that any strategies we implement to mitigate the impact of such tariffs or other trade 
actions will be successful;
• an increasing number of legislative initiatives have been passed into law that may result in major changes in the health care delivery system 
on a national or state level. For example, Congress has reduced to $0 the penalty for failing to maintain health coverage that was part of the 
original Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the 
"Legislation") as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. To date, the Biden administration has issued executive orders implementing a special 
enrollment period permitting individuals to enroll in health plans outside of the annual open enrollment period and reexamining policies that 
may undermine the Legislation or the Medicaid program. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) was passed on August 16, 2022, 
which among other things, allows for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") to negotiate prices for certain single-source 
drugs reimbursed under Medicare Part B and Part D. The American Rescue Plan Act’s expansion of subsidies to purchase coverage through a 
Legislation exchange, which the IRA continued through 2025, has increased exchange enrollment. However, the Trump administration has 
already taken steps to undo certain Biden-era executive orders, including those intended to lower drug costs for beneficiaries, and to freeze 
funding for federal programs. While the administration’s initial freeze has since been rescinded, the administration is likely to make other 
attempts to reduce federal program expenditures and can generally be expected to oppose increases in ACA and Medicaid enrollment. If the 
subsidies are not extended beyond 2025, exchange enrollment may be adversely impacted;
• there have been numerous political and legal efforts to expand, repeal, replace or modify the Legislation, since its enactment, some of which 
have been successful, in part, in modifying the Legislation, as well as court challenges to the constitutionality of the Legislation. The U.S. 
Supreme Court held in California v. Texas that the plaintiffs lacked standing to challenge the Legislation’s requirement to obtain minimum 
essential health insurance coverage, or the individual mandate.  The Court dismissed the case without specifically ruling on the 
constitutionality of the Legislation. As a result, the Legislation continued to remain law, in its entirety. On September 7, 2022, the Legislation 
faced its most recent challenge when a Texas Federal District Court judge, in the case of Braidwood Management v. Becerra, ruled that a 
requirement that certain health plans cover services without cost sharing violates the Appointments Clause of the U.S. Constitution and that 
the coverage of certain HIV prevention medication violates the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. The decision was appealed to the U.S. 
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which on June 21, 2024, affirmed the District Court’s ruling regarding preventive services 
recommended by United States Preventive Services Task Force being unconstitutional. However, the Fifth Circuit overturned the nationwide 
injunction imposed by the District Court, preserving access to the majority of preventive services in dispute for now. The U.S. Government 
appealed and on January 10, 2025, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear the matter. The outcome and impacts of this litigation cannot be 
predicted. Any future efforts to challenge, replace or replace the Legislation or expand or substantially amend its provision is unknown.  See 
below in Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform for additional disclosure; 
• as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021 (the "CAA"), Congress passed legislation aimed at preventing or limiting patient 
balance billing in certain circumstances. The CAA addresses surprise medical bills stemming from emergency services, out-of-network 
ancillary providers at in-network facilities, and air ambulance carriers. The CAA prohibits surprise billing when out-of-network emergency 
services or out-of-network services at an in-network facility are provided, unless informed consent is received.  In these circumstances 
providers are prohibited from billing the patient for any amounts that exceed in-network cost-sharing requirements. HHS, the Department of 
Labor and the Department of the Treasury have issued rules to implement the legislation. The rules have limited the ability of our hospital-
based physicians to receive payments for services at usually higher out-of-network rates in certain circumstances, and, as a result, have 
caused us to increase subsidies to these physicians or to replace their services at a higher cost level;
• in June 2024, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its decision in Loper Bright Enters. v. Raimondo and Relentless, Inc. v. Department of 
Commerce, which modified the regulatory interpretation standard established 40 years ago by Chevron v. National Resources Defense 
Council. Chevron doctrine generally required courts to defer to federal agencies in their interpretation of federal statutes when a statute was 
silent or ambiguous with respect to a specific issue.  In Loper Bright, the Supreme Court held that courts are no longer required to grant such 
deference, though they may consider an agency’s statutory interpretation. As it is highly regulated, the health care industry could be 
significantly impacted by the Loper Bright decision, particularly in the areas of Medicare reimbursement, decision making by the Food & 
Drug 

 
42Administration and health care fraud and abuse compliance, where parties may no longer be able to rely on federal agencies’ policies, rules 
and guidance;
• possible unfavorable changes in the levels and terms of reimbursement for our charges by third party payers or government based payers, 
including Medicare or Medicaid in the United States, and government based payers in the United Kingdom;
• our ability to enter into managed care provider agreements on acceptable terms and the ability of our competitors to do the same; 
• the outcome of known and unknown litigation, government investigations, inquiries, false claims act allegations, and liabilities and other 
claims asserted against us and other matters, and the effects of adverse publicity relating to such matters, including, but not limited to, the 
jury verdicts returned against The Pavilion Behavioral Health System (the "Pavilion") and Cumberland Hospital for Children and 
Adolescents ("Cumberland"), two of our indirect subsidiaries, as disclosed in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements - 
Commitments and Contingencies, Legal Proceedings. We are uncertain as to the ultimate financial exposure related to the Pavilion and 
Cumberland matters (which relate to occurrences in the 2020 policy year) and we can make no assurances regarding timing or substance of 
their outcome, or the amount of damages that may be ultimately held recoverable after post-judgment proceedings and appeals. As of 
December 31, 2024, without reduction for any potential amounts related to the Pavilion and Cumberland matters, the Company and its 
subsidiaries have aggregate insurance coverage of approximately $221 million remaining under commercial policies for matters applicable to 
the 2020 policy year (in excess of the applicable self-insured retention amounts of $10 million per single occurrence/$25 million for multi-
plaintiff matters for professional liability claims and $3 million per occurrence for general liability claims). In the event the resolution of the 
Pavilion and/or Cumberland matters exhausts all or a significant portion of the remaining commercial insurance coverage available to the 
Company and its subsidiaries related to other matters that occurred in 2020, or the Pavilion and Cumberland matters cause the posting of 
large bonds or other collateral during the appeal processes, our future results of operations and capital resources would be materially 
adversely impacted;
• competition from other healthcare providers (including physician owned facilities) in certain markets;
• technological and pharmaceutical improvements that increase the cost of providing, or reduce the demand for healthcare;
• our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, nurses, physicians and other healthcare professionals and the impact on our labor and 
related expenses resulting from a shortage of nurses, physicians and other healthcare professionals;
• demographic changes;
• there is a heightened risk of future cybersecurity threats, including ransomware attacks targeting healthcare providers. If successful, future 
cyberattacks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any costs that we incur as a result of a data security incident or breach, 
including costs to update our security protocols to mitigate such an incident or breach could be significant. Any breach or failure in our 
operational security systems, or any third-party security systems that we rely on, can result in loss of data or an unauthorized disclosure of or 
access to sensitive or confidential member or protected personal or health information and could result in violations of applicable privacy and 
other laws, significant penalties or fines, litigation, loss of customers, significant damage to our reputation and business, and other liability or 
losses. We may also incur additional costs related to cybersecurity risk management and remediation. There can be no assurance that we or 
our service providers, if applicable, will not suffer losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches in the future or that 
our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover all the costs resulting from such events;
• the availability of suitable acquisition and divestiture opportunities and our ability to successfully integrate and improve our acquisitions 
since failure to achieve expected acquisition benefits from certain of our prior or future acquisitions could result in impairment charges for 
goodwill and purchased intangibles;
• the impact of severe weather conditions, including the effects of hurricanes and climate change;
• our business, results of operations, financial condition, or stock price may be adversely affected if we are not able to achieve our 
environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) goals or comply with emerging ESG regulations, or otherwise meet the expectations of our 
stakeholders with respect to ESG matters;
• as discussed below in Sources of Revenue, we receive revenues from various state and county-based programs, including Medicaid in all the 
states in which we operate. We receive annual Medicaid revenues of approximately $100 million, or greater, from each of Texas, Nevada, 
California, Illinois, Pennsylvania, Washington, D.C., Kentucky, Florida, Virginia, Massachusetts and Mississippi. Most of these programs 
are approved on a year-to-year basis and there is no assurance that these revenues will continue at their current rates or at all. The prior 
President Trump administration had attempted to limit Medicaid expenditures by, for example, attaching work requirements to eligibility for 
Medicaid waiver benefits. The 

 
43second Trump administration is likely to explore similar solutions to limit Medicaid enrollment or expenditure. The Trump administration 
has already taken steps to undo Biden-era executive orders and to freeze funding for federal programs. While the administration’s initial 
freeze has since been rescinded, the administration is likely to make other attempts to reduce federal program expenditures and can generally 
be expected to oppose increases in ACA and Medicaid enrollment. We also receive Medicaid DSH payments in certain states including, most 
significantly, Texas. We are therefore particularly sensitive to potential reductions in Medicaid and other state-based revenue programs as 
well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states; 
• our ability to continue to obtain capital on acceptable terms, including borrowed funds, to fund the future growth of our business;
• our inpatient acute care and behavioral health care facilities may experience decreasing admission and length of stay trends;
• our financial statements reflect large amounts due from various commercial and private payers and there can be no assurance that failure of 
the payers to remit amounts due to us will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations;
• the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “2011 Act”) imposed annual spending limits for most federal agencies and programs aimed at reducing 
budget deficits by $917 billion between 2012 and 2021, according to a report released by the Congressional Budget Office. Among its other 
provisions, the law established a bipartisan Congressional committee, known as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (the “Joint 
Committee”), which was tasked with making recommendations aimed at reducing future federal budget deficits by an additional $1.5 trillion 
over 10 years. The Joint Committee was unable to reach an agreement by the November 23, 2011 deadline and, as a result, across-the-board 
cuts to discretionary, national defense and Medicare spending were implemented on March 1, 2013 resulting in Medicare payment reductions 
of up to 2% per fiscal year with a uniform percentage reduction across all Medicare programs. Current legislation has extended these 
reductions through 2032.  We cannot predict whether Congress will restructure the implemented Medicare payment reductions or what other 
federal budget deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by Congress going forward;
• uninsured and self-pay patients treated at our acute care facilities unfavorably impact our ability to satisfactorily and timely collect our self-
pay patient accounts;
• changes in our business strategies or development plans;
• we have exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the pound sterling. We have international subsidiaries that 
operate in the United Kingdom.  We routinely hedge our exposures to foreign currencies with certain financial institutions in an effort to 
minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations, but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from currency 
exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that these hedges are inadequate, our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business 
could be adversely affected. Furthermore, if a financial counterparty to our hedges experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to 
honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience material financial losses;
• the impact of a shift of care from inpatient to lower cost outpatient settings and controls designed to reduce inpatient services on our revenue, 
and;
• other factors referenced herein or in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Given these uncertainties, risks and assumptions, as outlined above, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking 
statements. Our actual results and financial condition could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. 
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. We assume no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements 
to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except as may be required by law. All 
forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make 
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
A summary of our significant accounting policies is outlined in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We consider our critical 
accounting policies to be those that require us to make significant judgments and estimates when we prepare our financial statements, including the 
following:

 
44Revenue Recognition: We report net patient service revenue at the estimated net realizable amounts from patients and third-party payers and others 
for services rendered. We have agreements with third-party payers that provide for payments to us at amounts different from our established rates. Payment 
arrangements include rates per discharge, reimbursed costs, discounted charges and per diem payments. Estimates of contractual allowances under 
managed care plans, which represent explicit price concessions, are based upon the payment terms specified in the related contractual agreements. We 
closely monitor our historical collection rates, as well as changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations and contract terms, to assure that provisions are 
made using the most accurate information available. However, due to the complexities involved in these estimations, actual payments from payers may be 
different from the amounts we estimate and record.
See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Revenue Recognition, for additional disclosure related to our revenues including a 
disaggregation of our consolidated net revenues by major source for each of the periods presented herein.
We estimate our Medicare and Medicaid revenues using the latest available financial information, patient utilization data, government provided data 
and in accordance with applicable Medicare and Medicaid payment rules and regulations. The laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid 
programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation and as a result, there is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates will change by 
material amounts in the near term. Certain types of payments by the Medicare program and state Medicaid programs (e.g. Medicare Disproportionate Share 
Hospital, Medicare Allowable Bad Debts and Inpatient Psychiatric Services) are subject to retroactive adjustment in future periods as a result of 
administrative review and audit and our estimates may vary from the final settlements. Such amounts are included in accounts receivable, net, on our 
consolidated balance sheets. The funding of both federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs are subject to legislative and regulatory changes. As such, 
we cannot provide any assurance that future legislation and regulations, if enacted, will not have a material impact on our future Medicare and Medicaid 
reimbursements. Adjustments related to the final settlement of these retrospectively determined amounts did not materially impact our results in 2024, 2023 
or 2022. If it were to occur, each 1% adjustment to our estimated net Medicare revenues that are subject to retrospective review and settlement as of 
December 31, 2024, would change our after-tax net income by approximately $2 million.
Charity Care, Uninsured Discounts and Other Adjustments to Revenue:  Collection of receivables from third-party payers and patients is our 
primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill 
which is the patient’s responsibility, primarily co-payments and deductibles. We estimate our revenue adjustments for implicit price concessions based on 
general factors such as payer mix, the aging of the receivables and historical collection experience.  We routinely review accounts receivable balances in 
conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions which might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments 
to our allowances as warranted. At our acute care hospitals, third party liability accounts are pursued until all payment and adjustments are posted to the 
patient account. For those accounts with a patient balance after third party liability is finalized or accounts for uninsured patients, the patient receives 
statements and collection letters. 
Historically, a significant portion of the patients treated throughout our portfolio of acute care hospitals are uninsured patients which, in part, has 
resulted from patients who are employed but do not have health insurance or who have policies with relatively high deductibles. Patients treated at our 
hospitals for non-elective services, who have gross income of various amounts, dependent upon the state, ranging from 200% to 400% of the federal 
poverty guidelines, are deemed eligible for charity care. The federal poverty guidelines are established by the federal government and are based on income 
and family size. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts that qualify as charity care, the transaction price is fully adjusted and there is no impact in 
our net revenues or in our accounts receivable, net.
A portion of the accounts receivable at our acute care facilities are comprised of Medicaid accounts that are pending approval from third-party 
payers but we also have smaller amounts due from other miscellaneous payers such as county indigent programs in certain states. Our patient registration 
process includes an interview of the patient or the patient’s responsible party at the time of registration. At that time, an insurance eligibility determination 
is made and an insurance plan code is assigned. There are various pre-established insurance profiles in our patient accounting system which determine the 
expected insurance reimbursement for each patient based on the insurance plan code assigned and the services rendered. Certain patients may be classified 
as Medicaid pending at registration based upon a screening evaluation if we are unable to definitively determine if they are currently Medicaid eligible. 
When a patient is registered as Medicaid eligible or Medicaid pending, our patient accounting system records net revenues for services provided to that 
patient based upon the established Medicaid reimbursement rates, subject to the ultimate disposition of the patient’s Medicaid eligibility. When the 
patient’s ultimate eligibility is determined, reclassifications may occur which impacts net revenues in future periods. Although the patient’s ultimate 
eligibility determination may result in adjustments to net revenues, these adjustments did not have a material impact on our results of operations in 2024 or 
2023 since our facilities make estimates at each financial reporting period to adjust revenue based on historical collections.
We also provide discounts to uninsured patients (included in “uninsured discounts” amounts below) who do not qualify for Medicaid or charity care. 
Because we do not pursue collection of amounts classified as uninsured discounts, the transaction price is fully adjusted and there is no impact in our net 
revenues or in our net accounts receivable. In implementing the discount policy, we 

 
45first attempt to qualify uninsured patients for governmental programs, charity care or any other discount program. If an uninsured patient does not qualify 
for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied. 
Uncompensated care (charity care and uninsured discounts):
The following table shows the amounts recorded at our acute care hospitals for charity care and uninsured discounts, based on charges at established 
rates, for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023:
 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
  2024   2023   
  Amount   %   Amount   %   
Charity care  $ 819,681   23% $ 843,449   32% 
Uninsured discounts   2,677,026   77%  1,792,493   68% 
Total uncompensated care  $ 3,496,707   100% $ 2,635,942   100% 
The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care:
The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care, as reflected below, were based on a calculation which multiplied the percentage of operating 
expenses for our acute care hospitals to gross charges for those hospitals by the above-mentioned total uncompensated care amounts. The percentage of 
cost to gross charges is calculated based on the total operating expenses for our acute care facilities divided by gross patient service revenue for those 
facilities. An increase in the level of uninsured patients to our facilities and the resulting adverse trends in the adjustments to net revenues and 
uncompensated care provided could have a material unfavorable impact on our future operating results.
  (amounts in thousands)  
  2024   2023  
Estimated cost of providing charity care  $ 75,227  $ 83,383 
Estimated cost of providing uninsured discounts   245,687   177,206 
Estimated cost of providing uncompensated care  $ 320,914  $ 260,589 
Self-Insured/Other Insurance Risks: We provide for self-insured risks, primarily general and professional liability claims, workers’ compensation 
claims and healthcare and dental claims. Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and general liability claims is based on a number of factors 
including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical 
settlement amounts and jury verdicts, estimates of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable 
under our commercial insurance policies. All relevant information, including our own historical experience is used in estimating the expected amount of 
claims. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our 
current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Our estimated self-insured reserves are reviewed and changed, if 
necessary, at each reporting date and changes are recognized currently as additional expense or as a reduction of expense. 
In addition, we also: (i) own commercial health insurers headquartered in Nevada and Puerto Rico, and; (ii) maintain self-insured employee benefits 
programs for employee healthcare and dental claims. The ultimate costs related to these programs/operations include expenses for claims incurred and paid 
in addition to an accrual for the estimated expenses incurred in connection with claims incurred but not yet reported. Given our significant insurance-
related exposure, there can be no assurance that a sharp increase in the number and/or severity of claims asserted against us will not have a material adverse 
effect on our future results of operations.
See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Commitments and Contingencies for additional disclosure related to our self-insured general 
and professional liability and workers’ compensation liability.
Long-Lived Assets:  We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these 
assets may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of our asset based on our 
estimate of its undiscounted future cash flow. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the asset is written 
down to its estimated fair value and an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values are determined based on estimated future cash flows using appropriate 
discount rates.  Please see additional disclosure below in Provision for Asset Impairments, for disclosure regarding a provision for asset impairment 
recorded during 2022.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets: Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at the reporting unit level on an 
annual basis or more often if indicators of impairment arise. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market 
conditions and operational performance of each reporting unit.  We have designated October 1st as our annual impairment assessment date for our goodwill 
and indefinite-lived intangible assets. 
We performed an impairment assessment as of October 1, 2024 which indicated no impairment of goodwill.  There was no goodwill impairment 
during 2023.   

 
46Future changes in the estimates used to conduct the impairment review, including profitability and market value projections, could indicate 
impairment in future periods potentially resulting in a write-off of a portion or all of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets.
Income Taxes: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the amount of taxes payable or deductible in future years as a result of 
differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements. We believe that future income will enable 
us to realize our deferred tax assets net of recorded valuation allowances relating to state and foreign net operating loss carry-forwards, tax credits, and 
interest deduction limitations.
Due to recent guidance and enacted laws surrounding the global 15% minimum tax rate that will be effective after 2024 from the Organization for 
Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD") as well as jurisdictions that we operate in, we anticipate adverse effects to our provision for income 
taxes as well as cash taxes. We do not expect these adverse effects to be material and will continue to monitor changes in tax policies and laws issued by 
the OECD and jurisdictions that we operate in. 
We operate in multiple jurisdictions with varying tax laws. We are subject to audits by any of these taxing authorities.  We believe that adequate 
accruals have been provided for federal, foreign and state taxes.
See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Income Taxes for additional disclosure of our effective tax rates.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements:  For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements, please see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements-Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Standards as included in this Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024.
Results of Operations
Clinical Staffing, Physician Related Expenses and Effects of Inflation: 
The healthcare industry is labor intensive and salaries, wages and benefits are subject to inflationary pressures, as are supplies expense and other 
operating expenses. In the past, staffing shortages have, at times, required us to hire expensive temporary personnel and/or enhance wages and benefits to 
recruit and retain nurses and other clinical staff and support personnel. At certain facilities, particularly within our behavioral health care segment, there 
have been occasions when we were unable to fill all vacant positions and, consequently, we were required to limit patient volumes. We have also 
experienced general inflationary cost increases related to certain of our other operating expenses. Many of these factors, which had a material unfavorable 
impact on our results of operations in prior years, have moderated more recently. However, we cannot predict future inflationary increases, which if 
significant, could have a material unfavorable impact on our future results of operations.
We have experienced inflationary pressures, primarily in personnel costs, although those pressures have moderated more recently. The extent of any 
future impacts from inflation on our business and our results of operations will be dependent upon how long the elevated inflation levels persist and the 
extent to which the rate of inflation further increases, if at all, neither of which we are able to predict. If elevated levels of inflation were to persist or if the 
rate of inflation were to accelerate, our expenses could increase faster than anticipated and we may utilize our capital resources sooner than expected. 
Further, given the complexities of the reimbursement landscape in which we operate, our ability to pass on increased costs associated with providing 
healthcare to Medicare and Medicaid patients is limited due to various federal, state and local laws, which in certain circumstances, limit our ability to 
increase prices.
In our acute care segment, during the past few years we experienced significant increases in hospital-based physician related expenses, especially in 
the areas of emergency room care and anesthesiology. We have implemented various initiatives to mitigate the increased expense, to the degree possible, 
which has moderated the rate of increase experienced during 2024. However, significant increases in these physician related expenses could have a material 
unfavorable impact on our future results of operations.
Although our ability to pass on increased costs associated with providing healthcare to Medicare and Medicaid patients is limited, as discussed 
above, we have been requesting and negotiating increased rates from commercial insurers to defray our increased cost of providing patient care. In 
addition, we have implemented various productivity enhancement programs and cost reduction initiatives including, but not limited to, the following: team-
based patient care initiatives designed to optimize the level of patient care services provided by our licensed nurses/clinicians; efforts to reduce utilization 
of, and rates paid for, premium pay labor; consolidation of medical supply vendors to increase purchasing discounts; review and reduction of clinical 
variation in connection with the utilization of medical supplies, and; various other efforts to increase productivity and/or reduce costs including investments 
in new information technology applications.
           The following table summarizes our results of operations, and is used in the discussion below, for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 
(dollar amounts in thousands):

 
47 
  Year Ended December 31,
  2024   2023   
     % of Net      % of Net   
  Amount   Revenues   Amount   Revenues   
Net revenues  $ 15,827,935   100.0% $ 14,281,976   100.0% 
Operating charges:              
Salaries, wages and benefits   7,518,687   47.5%  7,107,484   49.8% 
Other operating expenses   4,308,384   27.2%  3,757,216   26.3% 
Supplies expense   1,587,786   10.0%  1,532,828   10.7% 
Depreciation and amortization   584,831   3.7%  568,041   4.0% 
Lease and rental expense   146,433   0.9%  141,026   1.0% 
Subtotal-operating expenses   14,146,121   89.4%  13,106,595   91.8% 
Income from operations   1,681,814   10.6%  1,175,381   8.2% 
Interest expense, net   186,109   1.2%  206,674   1.4% 
Other (income) expense, net   (2,231)  0.0%  28,281   0.2% 
Income before income taxes   1,497,936   9.5%  940,426   6.6% 
Provision for income taxes   334,827   2.1%  221,119   1.5% 
Net income   1,163,109   7.3%  719,307   5.0% 
Less: Net income (loss) attributable   
   to noncontrolling interests   21,012   0.1%  1,512   0.0% 
Net income attributable to UHS  $ 1,142,097   7.2% $ 717,795   5.0% 
Net revenues increased by 10.8%, or $1.55 billion, to $15.83 billion during 2024 as compared to $14.28 billion during 2023. The increase in net 
revenues was primarily attributable to:
• a $1.32 billion or 9.5% increase in net revenues generated from our acute care and behavioral health care operations owned during both 
periods (which we refer to as “same facility”), and;
• $222 million of other combined net increases consisting primarily of a $239 million increase in provider tax assessments which had no 
impact on income before income taxes since amounts offset between net revenues and other operating expenses.     
Income before income taxes increased by $558 million, or 59%, to $1.50 billion during 2024 as compared to $940 million during 2023. The increase 
was attributable to:
• an increase of $295 million at our acute care facilities, as discussed below in Acute Care Hospital Services;   
• an increase of $277 million at our behavioral health care facilities, as discussed below in Behavioral Health Services, and;
• $14 million of other combined net decreases.      
Net income attributable to UHS increased by $424 million, or 59%, to $1.14 billion during 2024 as compared to $718 million during 2023. This 
increase was attributable to:
• a $558 million in income before income taxes, as discussed above;
• a decrease of $20 million due to an increase in the net income/loss attributable to noncontrolling interests, and;
• a decrease of $114 million resulting from an increase in the provision for income taxes resulting primarily from: (i) the increase in the 
provision for income taxes resulting from the $538 million increase in pre-tax income (consisting of $558 million increase in income before 
income taxes minus a $20 million increase in the income/loss attributable to noncontrolling interests), partially offset by; (ii) a $16 million 
decrease in the provision for income taxes during 2024, as compared to 2023, from the net tax benefit recorded pursuant to ASU 2016-09, net 
of the impact of executive compensation limitations pursuant to IRC section 162(m).  
Adjustments to Self-Insured Professional and General Liability Reserves:
Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the 
number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts and jury verdicts, 
estimates of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance 
policies. 
As a result of unfavorable trends experienced during 2024 and 2023, our results of operations included pre-tax increases to our reserves for self-
insured professional and general liability claims amounting to approximately $79 million during 2024 and $25 

 
48million during 2023. During 2024, approximately $54 million of the reserves increase is included in our Same Facility basis acute care hospitals services’ 
results, and approximately $25 million is included in our behavioral health services’ results. During 2023, approximately $18 million of the reserves 
increase is included in our Same Facility basis acute care hospitals services’ results, and approximately $7 million is included in our behavioral health 
services’ results. 
Acute Care Hospital Services
The following table sets forth certain operating statistics for our acute care hospital services for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. 
   Same Facility Basis   All  
   2024   2023   2024   2023  
Average licensed beds  6,657   6,644   6,670   6,691 
Average available beds  6,485   6,472   6,498   6,519 
Patient days  1,600,445   1,569,792   1,601,579   1,576,074 
Average daily census  4,372.8   4,300.8   4,375.9   4,318.0 
Occupancy-licensed beds  65.7%  64.7%  65.6%  64.5%
Occupancy-available beds  67.4%  66.5%  67.3%  66.2%
Admissions  331,113   321,155   331,415   322,218 
Length of stay  4.8   4.9   4.8   4.9 
Acute Care Hospital Services-Same Facility Basis
We believe that providing our results on a “Same Facility” basis (which is a non-GAAP measure), which includes the operating results for facilities 
and businesses operated in both the current year and prior year periods, is helpful to our investors as a measure of our operating performance. Our Same 
Facility results also neutralize (if applicable) the effect of items that are non-operational in nature including items such as, but not limited to, gains/losses 
on sales of assets and businesses, impacts of settlements, legal judgments and lawsuits, impairments of long-lived and intangible assets and other amounts 
that may be reflected in the current or prior year financial statements that relate to prior periods. 
Our Same Facility basis results reflected on the tables below also exclude from net revenues and other operating expenses, provider tax assessments 
incurred in each period as discussed below Sources of Revenue-Summary of Various State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs. However, these 
provider tax assessments are included in net revenues and other operating expenses as reflected in the table below under All Acute Care Hospital Services. 
The provider tax assessments had no impact on the income before income taxes as reflected on the tables below since the amounts offset between net 
revenues and other operating expenses. To obtain a complete understanding of our financial performance, the Same Facility results should be examined in 
connection with our net income as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and as presented in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto as 
contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
The following table summarizes the results of operations for our acute care hospital services on a Same Facility basis and is used in the discussions 
below for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 (dollar amounts in thousands):
 
  Year Ended   Year Ended  
  December 31, 2024   December 31, 2023  
     % of Net      % of Net  
  Amount   Revenues   Amount   Revenues  
Net revenues  $ 8,565,845   100.0% $ 7,892,167   100.0%
Operating charges:             
Salaries, wages and benefits   3,502,645   40.9%  3,387,843   42.9%
Other operating expenses   2,378,512   27.8%  2,164,069   27.4%
Supplies expense   1,358,636   15.9%  1,315,527   16.7%
Depreciation and amortization   364,907   4.3%  367,067   4.7%
Lease and rental expense   98,730   1.2%  96,429   1.2%
Subtotal-operating expenses   7,703,430   89.9%  7,330,935   92.9%
Income from operations   862,415   10.1%  561,232   7.1%
Interest (income) expense, net   6,339   0.1%  (2,501)  0.0%
Other (income) expense, net   (2,123)  0.0%  7,000   0.1%
Income before income taxes  $ 858,199   10.0% $ 556,733   7.1%
During 2024, as compared to 2023, net revenues from our acute care hospital services, on a Same Facility basis, increased by $674 million or 8.5%.  
Income before income taxes (and before income attributable to noncontrolling interests) increased by $301 million, or 54%, amounting to $858 million, or 
10.0% of net revenues during 2024, as compared to $557 million, or 7.1% of net 

 
49revenues during 2023. Included in our Same Facility basis' net revenues and income before income taxes, during 2024, was approximately $186 million of 
net reimbursements (net of related provider taxes) recorded in connection with the Nevada state directed payment program which was approved by the 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in December, 2023.  Please see additional disclosure below in Sources of Revenue-Nevada State Directed 
Payment Program ("SDP").
During 2024, net revenue per adjusted admission increased by 5.1% while net revenue per adjusted patient day increased by 6.3%, as compared to 
2023. During 2024, as compared to 2023, inpatient admissions to our acute care hospitals increased by 3.1% while adjusted admissions increased by 2.9%. 
Patient days and adjusted patient days at these facilities increased by 2.0% and 1.8%, respectively, during 2024, as compared to 2023. The average length 
of inpatient stay at these facilities was 4.8 days and 4.9 days during 2024 and 2023, respectively. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds 
at these facilities, was approximately 67% during each of 2024 and 2023. 
On a Same Facility basis during 2024, as compared to 2023, salaries, wages and benefits expense increased by $115 million, or 3.4%. Although our 
acute care facilities experienced an increase in patient volumes during 2024, as compared to the 2023, the related incremental staffing cost increase was 
offset by the following: (i) a reduction in premium pay (overtime paid to employees and external temporary resources' expense) which decreased by 
approximately $48 million during 2024, as compared to 2023, and; (ii) a restructuring, that occurred in early 2024, at certain of our acute care hospitals that 
reduced the number of employees in positions that were not directly related to the delivery of patient care. As a percentage of net revenues, salaries, wages 
and benefits expense decreased to 40.9% during 2024 as compared to 42.9% during 2023.
Other operating expenses increased by $214 million, or 9.9%, during 2024, as compared to 2023. Operating expenses incurred by our commercial 
health insurer, consisting primarily of medical costs, increased by $69 million during 2024, as compared to 2023. In addition, as discussed above in Results 
of Operations-Adjustments to Self-Insured Professional and General Liability Reserves, included in the other operating expenses of our acute care hospital 
services during 2024, as compared to 2023, was a $36 million increase in the adjustments made to our self-insured professional and general liability 
reserves that was applicable to our acute care facilities. Excluding these expense items from each year, other operating expenses increased by $109 million, 
or 6.3%. Contributing to the increase during 2024, as compared to 2023, were the expenses incurred in connection with the increase in patient volumes. As 
a percentage of net revenues, other operating expenses increased to 27.8% during 2024, as compared to 27.4% during 2023.
Supplies expense increased by $43 million, or 3.3%, during 2024, as compared to 2023.  As a percentage of net revenues, supplies expense 
decreased to 15.9% during 2024, as compared to 16.7% during 2023.
 
All Acute Care Hospital Services
The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our acute care operations during 2024 and 2023. These amounts include: (i) our 
acute care results on a same facility basis, as indicated above; (ii) the impact of provider tax assessments which increased net revenues and other operating 
expenses but had no impact on income before income taxes, and; (iii) certain other amounts including, if applicable, the operating results of recently 
acquired/opened facilities, or divested/closed facilities, including the operating results for Desert Springs Hospital which discontinued all inpatient 
operations during the first quarter of 2023. Dollar amounts below are reflected in thousands.
 
  Year Ended   Year Ended  
  December 31, 2024   December 31, 2023  
     % of Net      % of Net  
  Amount   Revenues   Amount   Revenues  
Net revenues  $ 8,922,327   100.0% $ 8,081,402   100.0%
Operating charges:             
Salaries, wages and benefits   3,511,359   39.4%  3,406,060   42.1%
Other operating expenses   2,743,420   30.7%  2,347,560   29.0%
Supplies expense   1,360,011   15.2%  1,317,917   16.3%
Depreciation and amortization   368,096   4.1%  367,644   4.5%
Lease and rental expense   99,060   1.1%  96,589   1.2%
Subtotal-operating expenses   8,081,946   90.6%  7,535,770   93.2%
Income from operations   840,381   9.4%  545,632   6.8%
Interest (income) expense, net   6,339   0.1%  (2,501)  0.0%
Other (income) expense, net   (1,305)  0.0%  7,788   0.1%
Income before income taxes  $ 835,347   9.4% $ 540,345   6.7%
During 2024, as compared to 2023, net revenues from our acute care hospital services increased by $841 million, or 10.4%, due to: (i) the $674 
million, or 8.5% increase in Same Facility revenues, as discussed above; (ii) a $187 million increase in provider tax assessments (which had no impact on 
income before income taxes since the amounts offset between net revenues and other operating 

 
50expenses), and; (iii) $20 million of other combined net decreases consisting primarily of decreased revenues at Desert Springs Hospital.              
Income before income taxes increased by $295 million, or 54.6%, to $835 million, or 9.4% of net revenues during 2024, as compared to $540 
million, or 6.7% of net revenues during 2023. The increase resulted from the $301 million, or 54%, increase in income before income taxes at our acute 
care hospital services, on a Same Facility basis, as discussed above, and $6 million of other combined net decreases resulting primarily from the losses 
incurred at the newly constructed 150-bed West Henderson Hospital located in Las Vegas, Nevada, that was completed and opened during the fourth 
quarter of 2024.    
During 2024, as compared to 2023, salaries, wages and benefits expense increased by $105 million, or 3.1%. The increase was due primarily to the 
above-mentioned $115 million increase related to our acute care hospital services, on a Same Facility basis, partially offset by a combined other net 
decrease of $10 million (consisting primarily of a decrease related to Desert Springs Hospital, partially offset by an increase related to West Henderson 
Hospital).
Other operating expenses increased $396 million, or 16.9%, during 2024 as compared to 2023. The increase was due primarily to the $214 million 
above-mentioned increase related to our acute care hospital services, on a Same Facility basis, as well as the above-mentioned $187 million increase in 
provider tax assessments.    
Supplies expense increased by $42 million, or 3.2%, during 2024 as compared to 2023. The increase was due primarily to the above-mentioned $43 
million increase related to our acute care hospital services, on a Same Facility basis.  
Please see Results of Operations - Clinical Staffing, Physician Related Expenses and Effects of Inflation above for additional disclosure regarding 
the factors impacting our operating costs. 
Behavioral Health Care Services
The following table sets forth certain operating statistics for our behavioral health care services for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. 
   Same Facility Basis   All  
   2024   2023   2024   2023  
Average licensed beds  24,165   24,000   24,367   24,224 
Average available beds  24,065   23,900   24,280   24,124 
Patient days  6,397,790   6,277,015   6,446,651   6,336,927 
Average daily census  17,480.3   17,197.3   17,613.8   17,361.4 
Occupancy-licensed beds  72.3%  71.7%  72.3%  71.7%
Occupancy-available beds  72.6%  72.0%  72.5%  72.0%
Admissions  472,798   468,260   476,584   472,307 
Length of stay  13.5   13.4   13.5   13.4 
Behavioral Health Care Services-Same Facility Basis
We believe that providing our results on a “Same Facility” basis (which is a non-GAAP measure), which includes the operating results for facilities 
and businesses operated in both the current year and prior year periods, is helpful to our investors as a measure of our operating performance. Our Same 
Facility results also neutralize (if applicable) the effect of items that are non-operational in nature including items such as, but not limited to, gains/losses 
on sales of assets and businesses, impacts of settlements, legal judgments and lawsuits, impairments of long-lived and intangible assets and other amounts 
that may be reflected in the current or prior year financial statements that relate to prior periods. 
Our Same Facility basis results reflected on the table below also excludes from net revenues and other operating expenses, provider tax assessments 
incurred in each period as discussed below Sources of Revenue-Summary of Various State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs. However, these 
provider tax assessments are included in net revenues and other operating expenses as reflected in the table below under All Behavioral Health Care 
Services. The provider tax assessments had no impact on the income before income taxes as reflected on the tables below since the amounts offset between 
net revenues and other operating expenses. To obtain a complete understanding of our financial performance, the Same Facility results should be examined 
in connection with our net income as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and as presented in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto 
as contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 
51The following table summarizes the results of operations for our behavioral health care services, on a same facility basis, and is used in the 
discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 (dollar amounts in thousands):
 
  Year Ended   Year Ended  
  December 31, 2024   December 31, 2023  
     % of Net      % of Net  
  Amount   Revenues   Amount   Revenues  
Net revenues  $6,700,469   100.0% $6,050,491   100.0%
Operating charges:             
Salaries, wages and benefits   3,590,985   53.6%  3,346,357   55.3%
Other operating expenses   1,262,446   18.8%  1,168,806   19.3%
Supplies expense   229,795   3.4%  216,880   3.6%
Depreciation and amortization   204,144   3.0%  188,237   3.1%
Lease and rental expense   46,468   0.7%  43,819   0.7%
Subtotal-operating expenses   5,333,838   79.6%  4,964,099   82.0%
Income from operations   1,366,631   20.4%  1,086,392   18.0%
Interest expense, net   4,027   0.1%  4,557   0.1%
Other (income) expense, net   (3,480)  -0.1%  (3,426)  -0.1%
Income before income taxes  $1,366,084   20.4% $1,085,261   17.9%
During 2024, as compared to 2023, net revenues from our behavioral health services, on a Same Facility basis, increased by $650 million or 10.7%.  
Income before income taxes increased by $281 million, or 25.9%, amounting to $1.366 billion or 20.4% of net revenues during 2024, as compared to 
$1.085 billion or 17.9% of net revenues during 2023.  
During 2024, net revenue per adjusted admission increased by 9.8% while net revenue per adjusted patient day increased by 8.8%, as compared to 
2023. During 2024, as compared to 2023, inpatient admissions and adjusted admissions to our behavioral health care hospitals increased by 1.0% and 
0.7%, respectively.  Patient days at these facilities increased by 1.9% and adjusted patient days increased by 1.7% during 2024, as compared to 2023. The 
average length of inpatient stay at these facilities was 13.5 days and 13.4 days during 2024 and 2023, respectively. The occupancy rate, based on the 
average available beds at these facilities, was 73% and 72% during 2024 and 2023, respectively.  
On a Same Facility basis during 2024, as compared to 2023, salaries, wages and benefits expense increased $245 million or 7.3%.  The increase 
during 2024, as compared to 2023, was due to a 3.2% increase in salaries, wages and benefits expense per average full-time equivalent employee, as well as 
a 4.0% increase in the average number of full time equivalent employees. The increased staffing was due, in part, to increased patient volumes. As a 
percentage of net revenues during each year, salaries, wages and benefits expense decreased to 53.6% during 2024 as compared to 55.3% during 2023.   
Other operating expenses increased $94 million, or 8.0%, during 2024, as compared to 2023. Included in the increase, as discussed above in Results 
of Operations-Adjustments to Self-Insured Professional and General Liability Reserves, included in the other operating expenses of our behavioral health 
care services during 2024, as compared to 2023, was an $18 million increase in the adjustments made to our self-insured professional and general liability 
reserves that was applicable to our behavioral health facilities. As a percentage of net revenues during each year, other operating expenses decreased to 
18.8% during 2024 as compared to 19.3% during 2023. 
Supplies expense increased $13 million, or 6.0%, during 2024, as compared to 2023.  As a percentage of net revenues during each year, supplies 
expense decreased to 3.4% during 2024 as compared to 3.6% during 2023.   

 
52All Behavioral Health Care Services
The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our behavioral health care services during 2024 and 2023. These amounts include: 
(i) our behavioral health care results on a same facility basis, as indicated above; (ii) the impact of provider tax assessments which increased net revenues 
and other operating expenses but had no impact on income before income taxes, and; (iii) certain other amounts, if applicable, including the results of 
facilities acquired or opened during the past year as well as the results of facilities that were opened or closed during the past year. Dollar amounts below 
are reflected in thousands.
 
  Year Ended   Year Ended  
  December 31, 2024   December 31, 2023  
     % of Net      % of Net  
  Amount   Revenues   Amount   Revenues  
Net revenues  $6,895,051   100.0% $6,190,921   100.0%
Operating charges:             
Salaries, wages and benefits   3,603,123   52.3%  3,353,008   54.2%
Other operating expenses   1,447,503   21.0%  1,303,311   21.1%
Supplies expense   230,274   3.3%  217,310   3.5%
Depreciation and amortization   206,362   3.0%  189,297   3.1%
Lease and rental expense   46,986   0.7%  44,028   0.7%
Subtotal-operating expenses   5,534,248   80.3%  5,106,954   82.5%
Income from operations   1,360,803   19.7%  1,083,967   17.5%
Interest expense, net   4,027   0.1%  4,558   0.1%
Other (income) expense, net   (3,547)  -0.1%  (4,271)  -0.1%
Income before income taxes  $1,360,323   19.7% $1,083,680   17.5%
During 2024, as compared to 2023, net revenues generated from our behavioral health services increased by $704 million, or 11.4%. The increase 
was primarily attributable to the $650 million, or 10.7%, increase in net revenues at our behavioral health facilities, on a Same Facility basis, as discussed 
above, as well as a $51 million increase in provider tax assessments.   
Income before income taxes increased by $277 million, or 26%, to $1.360 billion or 19.7% of net revenues during 2024, as compared to $1.084 
billion or 17.5% of net revenues during 2023. The increase in income before income taxes at our behavioral health facilities during 2024, as compared to 
2023, was primarily attributable to the $281 million, or 26%, increase in income before income taxes generated at our behavioral health facilities, on a 
Same Facility basis, as discussed above. 
During 2024, as compared to 2023, salaries, wages and benefits expense increased by $250 million or 7.5%. The increase was due primarily to the 
above-mentioned $245 million, or 7.3%, increase related to our behavioral health facilities, on a Same Facility basis.   
Other operating expenses increased by $144 million, or 11.1%, during 2024, as compared to 2023. The increase was due primarily to the above-
mentioned $94 million, or 8.0%, increase related to our behavioral health facilities, on a Same Facility basis, as well as a $51 million increase in provider 
tax assessments.    
Supplies expense increased $13 million, or 6.0%, during 2024, as compared to 2023, due primarily to the above-mentioned increase related to our 
behavioral health facilities, on a Same Facility basis.   
Please see Results of Operations - Clinical Staffing, Physician Related Expenses and Effects of Inflation above for additional disclosure regarding 
the factors impacting our operating costs. 
Sources of Revenue
Overview: We receive payments for services rendered from private insurers, including managed care plans, the federal government under the 
Medicare program, state governments under their respective Medicaid programs and directly from patients.
Hospital revenues depend upon inpatient occupancy levels, the medical and ancillary services and therapy programs ordered by physicians and 
provided to patients, the volume of outpatient procedures and the charges or negotiated payment rates for such services. Charges and reimbursement rates 
for inpatient routine services vary depending on the type of services provided (e.g., medical/surgical, intensive care or behavioral health) and the 
geographic location of the hospital. Inpatient occupancy levels fluctuate for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control. The percentage of 
patient service revenue attributable to outpatient services has generally increased in recent years, primarily as a result of advances in medical technology 
that allow more services to be provided on an outpatient basis, as well as increased pressure from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers to reduce 
hospital stays and provide services, where possible, on a less expensive outpatient basis. We believe that our experience with respect to our increased 
outpatient levels mirrors the general trend occurring in the health care industry and we are unable to predict the rate of growth and resulting impact on our 
future revenues.

 
53Patients are generally not responsible for any difference between customary hospital charges and amounts reimbursed for such services under 
Medicare, Medicaid, some private insurance plans, and managed care plans, but are responsible for services not covered by such plans, exclusions, 
deductibles or co-insurance features of their coverage. The amount of such exclusions, deductibles and co-insurance has generally been increasing each 
year. Indications from recent federal and state legislation are that this trend will continue. Collection of amounts due from individuals is typically more 
difficult than from governmental or business payers which unfavorably impacts the collectability of our patient accounts.
Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform: Given increasing budget deficits, the federal government and many states are currently 
considering additional ways to limit increases in levels of Medicare and Medicaid funding, which could also adversely affect future payments received by 
our hospitals. In addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon the federal government as a result of, among other things, economic recovery 
stimulus packages, responses to natural disasters, and the federal and state budget deficits in general may affect the availability of government funds to 
provide additional relief in the future. Changes resulting from the outcome of the 2024 elections may include increased reliance on Medicare Advantage 
programs, work requirements for Medicaid waiver program eligibility, increased focus on hospital outpatient site neutral payment policies, and similar 
initiatives that may reduce the availability of funding for federal healthcare programs or make eligibility for benefits more difficult. There have been 
proposals to substantially decrease federal funding for state Medicaid Programs. Any significant reduction in federal Medicaid funding to states would 
likely result in states reducing Medicaid payments to us which would have a material adverse effect on us. We are unable to predict the effect of future 
policy changes on our operations.
In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the 
“Legislation”) was enacted and its two primary goals were to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related 
expenses. The Legislation revised reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high-quality care and 
contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. The Legislation provides for reductions to Medicaid DSH 
payments which are scheduled to begin in 2025.
A 2012 U.S. Supreme Court ruling limited the federal government’s ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional 
sections of the Legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain Medicaid coverage requirements. Pursuant to that 
decision, the federal government may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the Medicaid expansion by reducing their existing Medicaid 
funding. Therefore, states can choose to expand or not to expand their Medicaid program without risking the loss of federal Medicaid funding. As a result, 
many states, including Texas, have not expanded their Medicaid programs without the threat of loss of federal funding. CMS has previously granted section 
1115 demonstration waivers providing for work and community engagement requirements for certain Medicaid eligible individuals. CMS has also released 
guidance to states interested in receiving their Medicaid funding through a block grant mechanism. The Biden administration withdrew certain previously 
issued section 1115 demonstrations aligned with these policies, but Georgia has imposed work and community engagement requirements under a Medicaid 
demonstration program that launched July 1, 2023. President Trump, more favorable to work and community engagement requirements in his first 
administration, is more likely to again seek these obligations for Medicaid demonstration programs. If additional section 1115 demonstrations that include 
work and community requirements are implemented, we anticipate that they would lead to reductions in coverage and likely increases in uncompensated 
care in those states where these demonstration waivers are granted.
On December 14, 2018, a Texas Federal District Court deemed the Legislation to be unconstitutional in its entirety. The Court concluded that the 
Individual Mandate is no longer permissible under Congress’s taxing power as a result of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 reducing the individual 
mandate’s tax to $0 (i.e., it no longer produces revenue, which is an essential feature of a tax), rendering the Legislation unconstitutional.  The Court also 
held that because the individual mandate is “essential” to the Legislation and is inseverable from the rest of the law, the entire Legislation is 
unconstitutional. That ruling was ultimately appealed to the United States Supreme Court, which decided in California v. Texas that the plaintiffs in the 
matter lacked standing to bring their constitutionality claims.  The Court did not reach the plaintiffs’ merits arguments, which specifically challenged the 
constitutionality of the Legislation’s individual mandate and the entirety of the Legislation itself. As a result, the Legislation will continue to be law, and 
the Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS") and its respective agencies will continue to enforce regulations implementing the law. However, 
on September 7, 2022, the Legislation faced its most recent challenge when a Texas Federal District Court judge, in the case of Braidwood Management v. 
Becerra, ruled that a requirement that certain health plans cover services without cost sharing violates the Appointments Clause of the U.S. Constitution 
and that the coverage of certain HIV prevention medication violates the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. The decision was appealed to the U.S. Court 
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which on June 21, 2024 affirmed the District Court’s ruling regarding preventive services recommended by United States 
Preventive Services Task Force being unconstitutional. However, the Fifth Circuit overturned the nationwide injunction imposed by the District Court, 
preserving access to the majority of preventive services in dispute for now. The government has appealed the matter to the U.S. Supreme Court. The 
outcome and impacts of this litigation cannot be predicted.
The Legislation also contained provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. The Legislation amends several existing laws, including 
the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought 
against healthcare providers. While Congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the Anti-Kickback Statute to provide that a person is not 
required to “have actual knowledge or specific intent to 

 
54commit a violation of” the Anti-Kickback Statute in order to be found in violation of such law, the Legislation also provides that any claims for items or 
services that violate the Anti-Kickback Statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. The Legislation provides 
that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil False Claims Act. In December, 2024, CMS 
changed the standard for identification of an overpayment and now requires the report and return of an overpayment if a provider or supplier has actual 
knowledge of the existence of an overpayment or acts in reckless disregard or deliberate ignorance of an overpayment. The Legislation also expanded the 
Recovery Audit Contractor program to Medicaid. These amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare 
providers that violate applicable laws and regulations.
We have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. These investments have been permitted under an exception to 
the physician self-referral law. The Legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a “grandfather” clause if the 
arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the 
hospital. The Legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of 
physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. A repeal of the Legislation, in whole or in relevant part, may result in physicians being 
able to expand ownership interest in hospitals.
In addition to legislative changes, the Legislation can be significantly impacted by executive branch actions. The Biden administration had issued 
executive orders implementing a special enrollment period permitting individuals to enroll in health plans outside of the annual open enrollment period and 
reexamining policies that may undermine the ACA or the Medicaid program. The American Rescue Plan Act of 2021's expansion of subsidies to purchase 
coverage through an exchange contributed to increased exchange enrollment in 2021. The IRA’s extension of subsidies through 2025 was expected to 
increase exchange enrollment in future years. However, the Trump administration has already taken steps to undo certain Biden-era executive orders, 
including those intended to lower drug costs for beneficiaries, and to freeze funding for federal programs. While the administration’s initial freeze has since 
been rescinded, the administration is likely to make other attempts to reduce federal program expenditures and can generally be expected to oppose 
increases in ACA and Medicaid enrollment.
It remains unclear what portions of the Legislation may remain, or whether any replacement or alternative programs may be created by any future 
legislation.  Any such future repeal or replacement may have significant impact on the reimbursement for healthcare services generally, and may create 
reimbursement for services competing with the services offered by our hospitals.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the adoption of any future 
federal or state healthcare reform legislation will not have a negative financial impact on our hospitals, including their ability to compete with alternative 
healthcare services funded by such potential legislation, or for our hospitals to receive payment for services.
For additional disclosure related to our revenues including a disaggregation of our consolidated net revenues by major source for each of the periods 
presented herein, please see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Revenue Recognition.
Medicare: Medicare is a federal program that provides certain hospital and medical insurance benefits to persons aged 65 and over, some disabled 
persons and persons with end-stage renal disease. All of our acute care hospitals and many of our behavioral health centers are certified as providers of 
Medicare services by the appropriate governmental authorities. Amounts received under the Medicare program are generally significantly less than a 
hospital’s customary charges for services provided. Since a substantial portion of our revenues will come from patients under the Medicare program, our 
ability to operate our business successfully in the future will depend in large measure on our ability to adapt to changes in this program.
Under the Medicare program, for inpatient services, our general acute care hospitals receive reimbursement under the inpatient prospective payment 
system (“IPPS”). Under the IPPS, hospitals are paid a predetermined fixed payment amount for each hospital discharge. The fixed payment amount is 
based upon each patient’s Medicare severity diagnosis related group (“MS-DRG”). Every MS-DRG is assigned a payment rate based upon the estimated 
intensity of hospital resources necessary to treat the average patient with that particular diagnosis. The MS-DRG payment rates are based upon historical 
national average costs and do not consider the actual costs incurred by a hospital in providing care. This MS-DRG assignment also affects the 
predetermined capital rate paid with each MS-DRG. The MS-DRG and capital payment rates are adjusted annually by the predetermined geographic 
adjustment factor for the geographic region in which a particular hospital is located and are weighted based upon a statistically normal distribution of 
severity. While we generally will not receive payment from Medicare for inpatient services, other than the MS-DRG payment, a hospital may qualify for an 
“outlier” payment if a particular patient’s treatment costs are extraordinarily high and exceed a specified threshold. MS-DRG rates are adjusted by an 
update factor each federal fiscal year, which begins on October 1. The index used to adjust the MS-DRG rates, known as the “hospital market basket 
index,” gives consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals in purchasing goods and services. Generally, however, the percentage increases in the 
MS-DRG payments have been lower than the projected increase in the cost of goods and services purchased by hospitals.
In August, 2024, CMS published its IPPS 2025 final payment rule which provides for a 2.9% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG 
blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments, and 
adjustments mandated by the Legislation are considered, without consideration for the required Medicare DSH payments changes and increase to the 
Medicare Outlier threshold, the overall increase in IPPS payments is 

 
55approximately 1.8%. Including DSH payments, an increase to the Medicare Outlier threshold and certain other adjustments, we estimate our overall 
increase from the final IPPS 2025 rule (covering the period of October 1, 2024 through September 30, 2025) will approximate 1.2%.
In August, 2023, CMS published its IPPS 2024 final payment rule which provides for a 3.1% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG 
blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates (including a change in the Medicare Rural Floor 
calculation), documenting and coding adjustments, and adjustments mandated by the Legislation are considered, without consideration for the required 
Medicare DSH payments changes and increase to the Medicare Outlier threshold, the overall increase in IPPS payments is approximately 6.6%. Including 
DSH payments, an increase to the Medicare Outlier threshold and certain other adjustments, we estimate our overall increase from the final IPPS 2024 rule 
(covering the period of October 1, 2023 through September 30, 2024) will approximate 5.4%.
In August, 2022, CMS published its IPPS 2023 final payment rule which provides for a 4.1% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG 
blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments, and 
adjustments mandated by the Legislation are considered, without consideration for the required Medicare DSH payments changes and increase to the 
Medicare Outlier threshold, the overall increase in IPPS payments is approximately 4.6.%. Including DSH payments, an increase to the Medicare Outlier 
threshold and certain other adjustments, we estimate our overall increase from the final IPPS 2023 rule (covering the period of October 1, 2022 through 
September 30, 2023) will approximate 4.4%. This projected impact from the IPPS 2023 final rule includes an increase of approximately 0.5% to partially 
restore cuts made as a result of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, as required by the 21st Century Cures Act, but excludes the impact of the 
sequestration reductions related to the 2011 Act, Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, and Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018.
In June, 2019, the Supreme Court of the United States issued a decision favorable to hospitals impacting prior year Medicare DSH payments (Azar 
v. Allina Health Services, No. 17-1484 (U.S. Jun. 3, 2019)).  In Allina, the hospitals challenged the Medicare DSH adjustments for federal fiscal year 2012, 
specifically challenging CMS’s decision to include inpatient hospital days attributable to Medicare Part C enrollee patients in the numerator and 
denominator of the Medicare/SSI fraction used to calculate a hospital’s DSH payments.  This ruling addresses CMS’s attempts to impose the policy 
espoused in its vacated 2004 rulemaking to a fiscal year in the 2004–2013 time period without using notice-and-comment rulemaking. This decision should 
require CMS to recalculate hospitals’ DSH Medicare/SSI fractions, with Medicare Part C days excluded, for at least federal fiscal year 2012, but likely 
federal fiscal years 2005 through 2013.  In August, 2020, CMS issued a rule that proposed to retroactively negate the effects of the aforementioned 
Supreme Court decision, which rule has yet to be finalized. Although we can provide no assurance that we will ultimately receive additional funds, we 
estimate that the favorable impact of this court ruling on certain prior year hospital Medicare DSH payments could range between $18 million to $28 
million in the aggregate.
The 2011 Act included the imposition of annual spending limits for most federal agencies and programs aimed at reducing budget deficits by $917 
billion between 2012 and 2021, according to a report released by the Congressional Budget Office. Among its other provisions, the law established a 
bipartisan Congressional committee, known as the Joint Committee, which was responsible for developing recommendations aimed at reducing future 
federal budget deficits by an additional $1.5 trillion over 10 years. The Joint Committee was unable to reach an agreement by the November 23, 2011 
deadline and, as a result, across-the-board cuts to discretionary, national defense and Medicare spending were implemented on March 1, 2013 resulting in 
Medicare payment reductions of up to 2% per fiscal year. Subsequent legislation has extended this sequestration through 2032.  The CARES Act, as 
amended, temporarily suspended or limited the application of this sequestration from May 1, 2020 through June 30, 2022, with a return to the full 2% 
Medicare payment reduction thereafter.
Inpatient services furnished by psychiatric hospitals under the Medicare program are paid under a Psychiatric Prospective Payment System (“Psych 
PPS”). Medicare payments to psychiatric hospitals are based on a prospective per diem rate with adjustments to account for certain facility and patient 
characteristics. The Psych PPS also contains provisions for outlier payments and an adjustment to a psychiatric hospital’s base payment if it maintains a 
full-service emergency department.
In July, 2024, CMS published its Psych PPS final rule for the federal fiscal year 2025. Under this final rule, payments to our behavioral health care 
hospitals and units from the market basket update are estimated to increase by 2.8% compared to federal fiscal year 2024. This amount includes the effect 
of the 3.3% net market basket update which reflects the offset of a 0.5% productivity adjustment. When all of the final patient level adjustments described 
below as well as proposed wage index values are considered, we estimate that Psych PPS payments will increase by 2.1% in FFY 2025.
In addition to the market basket update noted above, CMS will make the following changes:
• Revisions to the methodology for determining the payment rates under the Inpatient Psychiatric Facility ("IPF") PPS for psychiatric hospitals 
and psychiatric units based on a review of the data and information collected in prior years in accordance with section 1886(s)(5)(A) of the 
Social Security Act, as added by the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2023 ("CAA of 2023"). CMS finalized revisions to the IPF patient-
level adjustment factors. The patient-level adjustments include Medicare Severity Diagnosis Related Groups (MS–DRGs) assignment of the 
patient’s principal diagnosis, selected comorbidities, patient age, and the variable per diem adjustments;

 
56• Implement these revisions in a budget-neutral manner (that is, estimated payments to IPFs for FFY 2025 would be the same with or without 
the final revisions), and;
• Clarified the criteria regarding all-inclusive cost reporting. This clarification requires our behavioral health care hospitals, which are currently 
utilizing an all-inclusive charging practice, to modify both their billing practices and information technology applications by June 1, 2025 to 
ensure compliance with future regulations.  We intend to be in compliance with this CMS billing requirement.
This final rule also includes two requests for information on future revisions to the IPF PPS facility-level adjustment factors and development of the 
new standardized IPF Patient Assessment Instrument, required by the CAA of 2023, which IPFs participating in the IPF Quality Reporting Program will be 
required to report for Rate Year 2028.
In July, 2023, CMS published its Psych PPS final rule for the federal fiscal year 2024. Under this final rule, payments to our behavioral health care 
hospitals and units are estimated to increase by 3.3% compared to federal fiscal year 2023. This amount includes the effect of the 3.5% net market basket 
update which reflects the offset of a 0.2% productivity adjustment.
In July, 2022, CMS published its Psych PPS final rule for the federal fiscal year 2023. Under this final rule, payments to our behavioral health care 
hospitals and units are estimated to increase by 3.8% compared to federal fiscal year 2022. This amount includes the effect of the 4.1% net market basket 
update which reflects the offset of a 0.3% productivity adjustment.
On November 2, 2023, in light of the Supreme Court’s decision in American Hospital Association v. Becerra (142 S. Ct. 1896 (2022)) and the 
district court’s remand to the agency, CMS issued a final rule outlining the remedy for the 340B-acquired drug payment policy for calendar years 2018-
2022. CMS published the final rule to remedy the payment rates the Court held were invalid aspects of their past policy and will affect nearly all hospitals 
paid under the OPPS.  As part of the final remedy, CMS will make an adjustment to the update factor to maintain budget neutrality as required by statute. 
CMS finalized the 340B policy for calendar year 2018 in 2017 in a budget neutral manner that included increasing payments for non-drug items and 
services; this payment increase was in effect from calendar years 2018 through 2022. CMS estimates that hospitals were paid $7.8 billion more for non-
drug items and services during this time period than they would have been paid in the absence of the 340B payment policy.  Because CMS is now making 
additional payments to affected 340B covered entity hospitals to pay them what they would have been paid had the 340B policy never been implemented, 
CMS will make a corresponding offset to maintain budget neutrality as if the 340B payment policy had never been in effect. To carry out this required $7.8 
billion budget neutrality adjustment, CMS will reduce future non-drug item and service payments by adjusting the OPPS conversion factor by minus 0.5% 
starting in calendar year 2026 and continuing for 16 years. The impact of this 0.5% reduction on our 2026 results of operations is approximately $4 million.
In November, 2024, CMS issued its OPPS final rule for 2025. The hospital market basket increase is 3.4% and the productivity adjustment 
reduction is 0.5% for a net market basket increase of 2.9%. When other statutorily required adjustments and hospital patient service mix are considered, 
including a 14.2% increase to the partial hospitalization rate, we estimate that our overall Medicare OPPS update for 2025 will aggregate to a net increase 
of 3.6%.
In November, 2023, CMS issued its OPPS final rule for 2024. The hospital market basket increase is 3.3% and the productivity adjustment 
reduction is 0.2% for a net market basket increase of 3.1%. When other statutorily required adjustments and hospital patient service mix are considered, we 
estimate that our overall Medicare OPPS update for 2024 will aggregate to a net increase of 9.7%. This percentage reflects the impact resulting from rural 
floor changes to the Medicare wage index adjustment factor where certain states, such as California and Nevada, will materially benefit from this change.
In November, 2022, CMS issued its OPPS final rule for 2023. The hospital market basket increase is 4.1% and the productivity adjustment 
reduction is -0.3% for a net market basket increase of 3.8%.  The final rule provides that in light of the Supreme Court decision in American Hospital 
Association v. Becerra, CMS is applying the default rate, generally average sales price plus 6%, to 340B acquired drugs and biologicals for 2023.  During 
the 2018-2022 time period, we recorded an aggregate of approximately $45 million to $50 million of Medicare revenues related to the prior 340B payment 
policy. When other statutorily required adjustments and hospital patient service mix are considered, as well as impact of the aforementioned 340B Program 
policy change, our overall Medicare OPPS update for 2023 aggregated to a net increase of approximately 0.9% which includes a 0.3% increase to 
behavioral health division partial hospitalization rates.
On November 2, 2021, CMS issued its OPPS final rule for 2022. The hospital market basket increase is 2.7% and the productivity adjustment 
reduction is -0.7% for a net market basket increase of 2.0%. When other statutorily required adjustments and hospital patient service mix are considered, 
our overall Medicare OPPS update for 2022 aggregated to a net increase of approximately 2.4% which includes a 3.0% increase to behavioral health 
division partial hospitalization rates.
In November, 2019, CMS finalized its Hospital Price Transparency rule that implements certain requirements under the June 24, 2019 Presidential 
Executive Order related to Improving Price and Quality Transparency in American Healthcare to Put Patients First. Under this final rule, effective January 
1, 2021, CMS will require: hospitals to make public: (1) their standard changes (both gross charges and payer-specific negotiated charges) for all items and 
services online in a machine-readable format, and; (2) standard charge data for a limited set of “shoppable services” the hospital provides in a form and 
manner that is more consumer friendly. On 

 
57November 2, 2021, CMS released a final rule increasing the monetary penalty that CMS can impose on hospitals that fail to comply with the price 
transparency requirements. We believe that our hospitals are in full compliance with the applicable federal regulations. In November, 2023, CMS finalized 
multiple provisions, effective as of January 1, 2024, focused on increasing hospital price transparency and compliance enforcement including but not 
limited to: (1) standard charges data would be posted online using a CMS template, instead of using the hospital’s own form/format; (2) all standard charge 
information would be encoded with a specified set of data elements (e.g., hospital name; license number; payer/plan name; description of service; billing 
codes, among others); (3) other technical changes related to increasing consumers’ automated accessibility to hospital standard charges, and; (4) 
certifications regarding accuracy of standard charge data and related compliance warning notices from CMS and requiring accessibility to health system 
leadership regarding transparency noncompliance.
In September, 2024, the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services and the Treasury published final rules that:
• Mandate that insurers analyze the outcomes of their coverage to ensure there's equivalent access to mental health care, including provider 
networks, prior authorization rates and payment for out-of-network providers, and take action to get in compliance;
• Establish when health plans can’t use prior authorization or other tactics to make it more difficult to access mental health and substance use 
treatment, and;
• Require additional insurers to comply with the 2008 Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act.
While these rules will likely improve patient access to inpatient and outpatient mental health services, we are unable to estimate the related potential 
impact on our results of operations.
Medicaid: Medicaid is a joint federal-state funded health care benefit program that is administered by the states to provide benefits to qualifying 
individuals. Most state Medicaid payments are made under a PPS-like system, or under programs that negotiate payment levels with individual hospitals. 
Amounts received under the Medicaid program are generally significantly less than a hospital’s customary charges for services provided. In addition to 
revenues received pursuant to the Medicare program, we receive a large portion of our revenues either directly from Medicaid programs or from managed 
care companies managing Medicaid. All of our acute care hospitals and most of our behavioral health centers are certified as providers of Medicaid 
services by the appropriate governmental authorities.
We receive revenues from various state and county-based programs, including Medicaid in all the states in which we operate. We receive annual 
Medicaid revenues of approximately $100 million, or greater, from each of Texas, Nevada, California, Illinois, Pennsylvania, Washington, D.C., Kentucky, 
Florida, Virginia, Massachusetts and Mississippi.  We also receive Medicaid disproportionate share hospital payments in certain states including, most 
significantly, Texas. Many of these programs have a Medicaid supplemental payment component that are subject to approval on a year-to-year basis and 
there is no assurance that these supplemental payment revenues will continue at their current rates or at all. We are therefore particularly sensitive to 
potential reductions in Medicaid and other state-based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those 
states. We can provide no assurance that reductions to revenues earned pursuant to these programs, particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have 
a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.
The Legislation substantially increases the federally and state-funded Medicaid insurance program, and authorizes states to establish federally 
subsidized non-Medicaid health plans for low-income residents not eligible for Medicaid starting in 2014. However, the Supreme Court has struck down 
portions of the Legislation requiring states to expand their Medicaid programs in exchange for increased federal funding. Accordingly, many states in 
which we operate have not expanded Medicaid coverage to individuals at 133% of the federal poverty level. Facilities in states not opting to expand 
Medicaid coverage under the Legislation may be additionally penalized by corresponding reductions to Medicaid disproportionate share hospital payments 
beginning in fiscal year 2024, as discussed below. We can provide no assurance that further reductions to Medicaid revenues, particularly in the above-
mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.
Summary of Various State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs: 
The following table summarizes the revenues, healthcare provider taxes (“Provider Taxes”) and net benefit related to each of the below-mentioned 
Medicaid supplemental programs for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023.  The Provider Taxes are recorded in other operating expenses on the 
consolidated statements of income, as included herein. The "Estimated 2025" amounts reflected on the table below are, in many cases, subject to federal 
and potentially state approval and may be affected by any reductions or other changes in federal funding for these programs.  

 
58 (amounts in millions)  
 Estimated 2025  2024  2023  
Texas Supplemental Payment Programs:       
Revenues $ 308 $ 336 $ 247 
Provider Taxes  (127) (131) (82)
Net benefit $ 181 $ 205 $ 165 
       
Nevada SDP:       
Revenues $ 347 $ 310 $ 13 
Provider Taxes  (125) (116) (4)
Net benefit $ 222 $ 194 $ 9 
       
Various Other State Programs:       
Revenues $ 836 $ 853 $ 593 
Provider Taxes  (290) (289) (211)
Net benefit $ 546 $ 564 $ 382 
       
Subtotal-Provider Tax Programs:       
Revenues $ 1,491 $ 1,499 $ 853 
Provider Taxes  (542) (536) (297)
Aggregate net benefit from Provider Tax Programs $ 949 $ 963 $ 556 
       
Texas, Nevada and South Carolina DSH/SPA Programs:       
 Revenues $ 48 $ 53 $ 73 
 Provider Taxes  0  0  0 
 Net benefit $ 48 $ 53 $ 73 
       
Total Supplemental Medicaid Programs:       
 Revenues $ 1,539 $ 1,552 $ 926 
 Provider Taxes  (542) (536) (297)
Aggregate net benefit from all Supplemental Programs $ 997 $ 1,016 $ 629 
Texas Supplemental Payment Programs:
Certain of our acute care hospitals located in various counties of Texas participate in Medicaid supplemental payment Section 1115 Waiver indigent 
care programs. The 1115 Waiver has been approved by CMS through September 30, 2030. These hospitals also have affiliation agreements with third-party 
hospitals to provide free hospital and physician care to qualifying indigent residents of these counties. Our hospitals receive both supplemental payments 
from the Medicaid program and indigent care payments from third-party, affiliated hospitals. The supplemental payments are contingent on the county or 
hospital district making an Inter-Governmental Transfer (“IGT”) to the state Medicaid program while the indigent care payment is contingent on a transfer 
of funds from the applicable affiliated hospitals. However, the county or hospital district is prohibited from entering into an agreement to condition any 
IGT on the amount of any private hospital’s indigent care obligation.
CHIRP (including QIF)
On August 1, 2022, CMS approved the Comprehensive Hospital Increase Reimbursement Program ("CHIRP"), with a pool of $5.2 billion, for the 
rate period effective September 1, 2022 to August 31, 2023. On July 31, 2023, CMS approved the CHIRP program, with a pool of $6.5 billion, for the rate 
period of September 1, 2023 to August 31, 2024. On September 13, 2024, CMS approved the CHIRP program with a pool of $6.5 billion for the rate period 
September 1, 2024 to August 31, 2025 (with an amended CMS approval on October 1, 2024).
On January 26, 2024, the Texas Health and Human Services Commission ("THHSC") issued a final rule that will modify the CHIRP payments 
beginning with the State Fiscal Year (SFY) 2025 rate period to promote the advancement of the quality goals and strategies the program is designed to 
advance.
The final modifications include:
• Creation of a new pay-for-performance incentive payment through a third component in CHIRP, the Alternate Participating Hospital 
Reimbursement for Improving Quality Award ("APHRIQA"). For state fiscal years beginning with SFY 2025, behavioral health hospitals 
and rural hospitals will not be included in the pay-for-performance program, and;

 
59• The funds for payment of the APHRIQA component will be transitioned from the existing uniform rate increase components of the Uniform 
Hospital Rate Increase Percentage and the Average Commercial Incentive Award and will be paid using a scorecard that directs managed 
care organizations to pay providers for performance achievements on quality outcome measures. Payments will be distributed under 
APHRIQA on a semi-annual basis that aligns with the measurement period determined for quality metrics reporting.
CHIRP payment levels could be reduced materially if our hospitals are not able meet the required APHRIQA pay-for-performance metrics.
In connection with the Quality Incentive Fund (“QIF”), the results of operations of certain of our acute care hospitals located in Texas included 
aggregate revenues of $50 million and $33 million during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. These amounts were earned pursuant 
to contract terms with various Medicaid managed care plans which requires the annual payout of QIF funds when a managed care service delivery area’s 
actual claims-based CHIRP payments are less than targeted CHIRP payments for a specific rate year. 
We estimate that these hospitals will be entitled to approximately $29 million of aggregate QIF revenues during the year ended December 31, 2025.
UC
Included in these provider tax programs are reimbursements received in connection with the Texas Uncompensated Care program ("UC"). The size 
and distribution of the UC pool are determined based on charity care costs reported to THHSC in accordance with Medicare cost report Worksheet S-10 
principles.
HARP
On September 24, 2021, THHSC finalized New Fee-for-Service Supplemental Payment Program: Hospital Augmented Reimbursement Program 
(“HARP”) to be effective October 1, 2021. The HARP program continues the financial transition for providers who have historically participated in the 
Delivery System Reform Incentive Payment program described below. The program, which was approved by CMS on August 15, 2023, will provide 
additional funding to hospitals to help offset the cost hospitals incur while providing Medicaid services. HARP is technically a Medicaid Upper Payment 
Limit as payment under this program is based on a reasonable estimate of the amount that would be paid for the services under Medicare payment 
principles but is referred to as HARP by THHSC. 
In connection with this program, included in our results of operations was approximately $43 million and $20 million during the years ended 
December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Approximately $16 million of the amount recorded during 2024 was applicable to the period of October 1, 
2022 through September 30, 2023. Approximately $13 million of the amount recorded during 2023 was applicable to the period of October 1, 2021 through 
September 30, 2022. 
We expect our net reimbursements pursuant to HARP to approximate $24 million during the year ended December 31, 2025.
Nevada State Directed Payment Program ("SDP"):
As previously reported, in February, 2023, the Nevada Division of Health Care Financing and Policy (“DHCFP”) outlined a new provider fee on 
private hospitals located in Nevada that would effectively capture new Medicaid federal share for certain categories of services eligible for the new 
payment program. In late December, 2023, CMS approved the Medicaid managed care component of the Nevada SDP program, with an effective date of 
January 1, 2024. In November 2024, CMS approved an increased assessment rate which funded an increase in the SDP pool size covering the period of 
July 1, 2024 through December 31, 2024. Payments made pursuant to this component of the Nevada SDP program, which requires annual approval by 
CMS, are subject to reconciliation by DHCFP based on actual Medicaid managed care utilization during 2024. There can be no assurance that the Medicaid 
managed care component of the Nevada SDP will continue for any period after December 31, 2024, or that it will not be modified.  
In connection with this program, included in our results of operations was approximately $194 million and $9 million recorded during the years 
ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.  
We estimate that our aggregate net reimbursements pursuant to both components of the Nevada SDP program (net of related provider taxes) will 
approximate $222 million during the year ended December 31, 2025. The Nevada SDP for the period of January 1, 2025 through December 31, 2025 is 
under CMS' review for approval. 
Various Other State Programs:
We receive substantial reimbursement from multiple states in connection with various supplemental Medicaid payment programs. The states 
include, but are not limited to, the state programs listed below from which we receive significant reimbursements.
Kentucky Hospital Rate Increase Program (“HRIP”)

 
60In early 2021, CMS approved the Kentucky Medicaid Managed Care Hospital Rate Increase Program. In connection with this program, included in 
our results of operations was approximately $88 million and $73 million during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. In December, 
2024, CMS approved the program for the period of January 1, 2025 through December 31, 2025 at rates comparable to the prior year.
We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to HRIP will approximate $84 million during the year ended December 31, 2025.
California Supplemental Payments
In California, the state continues to operate Medicaid supplemental payment programs consisting of three components: Fee For Service Payment, 
Managed Care-Pass-Through Payment and Managed Care-Directed Payment. The non-federal share for these programs are financed by a statewide 
provider tax. The Directed Payment method will be based on actual concurrent hospital Medicaid managed care in-network patient volume whereas the 
other programs are based on prior year Medicaid utilization. The CMS program approval status is outlined in the table below.
California Hospital Fee Program CMS Approval Status:
Hospital Fee Program Component CMS Methodology Approval  
StatusCMS Rate Setting Approval Status
Fee For Service Payment Approved through December 31, 2024 Approved through December 31, 2024; Paid through  
September 30, 2024
Managed Care-Pass-Through Payment Approved through December 31, 2024 Approved through December 31, 2022 and paid in  
advance through December 31, 2023
Managed Care-Directed Payment Approved through December 31, 2024 Approved through December 31, 2022 and paid in  
advance through June 30, 2023
In connection with this program, included in our results of operations was $47 million and $46 million during the years ended  December 31, 2024 
and 2023, respectively. 
We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to this program will approximate $63 million during the year ended December 31, 2025.
Mississippi Hospital Access Program
In September, 2023, subject to CMS approval, Mississippi announced a $689 million, two-part Medicaid payment proposal, effective retroactively 
to July 1, 2023, that would be funded by annual hospital assessments to the state's Medicaid program. These hospital assessments are calculated using a 
formula provided under state law. The first part of the program, known as the Mississippi Hospital Access Program (“MHAP”), provides direct payments 
for hospitals that serve patients in the state's Medicaid managed care delivery system. Hospitals are reimbursed near the average commercial rate, which is 
the upper limit ("UPL") for Medicaid managed care reimbursements. The second part of the program supplements traditional Medicaid payment rates for 
hospitals providing inpatient and outpatient services up to Medicaid's regulated UPL. In June 2024, CMS approved the MHAP program component for the 
period July 1, 2024 to June 30, 2025. The UPL component was approved in April, 2024.
In connection with this program, included in our results of operations was approximately $48 million and $33 million recorded during the years 
ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. 
We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to these supplemental payment programs will approximate $44 million during the year ended 
December 31, 2025.
Florida Medicaid Managed Care Directed Payment Program (“DPP”)
The Florida DPP provides for an additional payment for Medicaid managed care contracted services. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 
2023, our results of operations included approximately $46 million and $43 million recorded in connection with this program (substantially all of which 
was recorded during the fourth quarters of each year).  
We estimate that our reimbursements pursuant to this DPP will approximate $37 million during the year ended December 31, 2025.  The Florida 
DPP for the period of October 1, 2024 to September 30, 2025 is under CMS' review for approval.
Illinois Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs
The Illinois Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs are comprised of three components: (1) Medicaid managed care directed payment program; 
(2) Medicaid managed care pass-through program, and; (3) Medicaid fee for service supplemental payment program. These programs require various 
related legislative and regulatory approvals each year. 

 
61In connection with this program, included in our results of operations was approximately $39 million and $36 million during the years ended 
December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to these supplemental payment programs will approximate $36 million during the year ended 
December 31, 2025. Approval of these programs for the period of January 1, 2025 to December 31, 2025 is under CMS' review.  
Indiana Medicaid Managed Care DPP
The Indiana DPP provides for an additional payment for Medicaid managed care contracted services. In connection with this program, included in 
our results of operations was approximately $31 million recorded during each of the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. 
We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to this program will approximate $33 million during the year ended December 31, 2025.
Oklahoma (Transition to Managed Care and Implementation of a Medicaid Managed Care DPP)
The current Oklahoma Medicaid supplemental payment program in effect, prior to the planned implementation of the new DPP in 2024, is the 
Supplemental Hospital Offset Payment Program (“SHOPP”). The SHOPP component will remain in place for certain categories of Medicaid patients that 
will continue to be enrolled in the traditional Medicaid Fee for Service program.
In May, 2022, Oklahoma enacted legislation that directs the Oklahoma Health Care Authority ("OHCA") to: (i) transition its Medicaid program 
from a fee for service payment model to a managed care payment model by no later than October 1, 2023, and: (ii) concurrently implement a Medicaid 
managed care DPP using a managed care gap of 90% of average commercial rates. In December, 2022, the OHCA delayed the implementation date of the 
Medicaid managed care change and related DPP until April 1, 2024. In September, 2023, CMS approved the DPP program for the 15-momth period 
effective as of April 1, 2024 through June 30, 2025.
In connection with this program, included in our results of operations was approximately $20 million and $12 million recorded during the years 
ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. 
We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to these two supplemental payment programs (i.e. SHOPP and DPP) will approximate $22 
million during the year ended December 31, 2025.
South Carolina Health Access, Workforce and Quality (“HAWQ”) Program
In September 2023, CMS approved the South Carolina HAWQ Program retroactive to July 1, 2023 and subsequently approved by CMS in July, 
2024 for the period of July 1, 2024 to June 30, 2025. This program is a Medicaid managed care directed payment program that provides for a rate 
enhancement to Medicaid managed care encounters. In connection with this program, included in our results of operations was approximately $28 million 
and $11 million recorded during the years ended  December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to this program will approximate $26 million during the year ended December 31, 2025.
Michigan Directed Payment Program (“DPP”)
In March 2024, CMS approved the Michigan Medicaid DPP retroactive to October 1, 2023 based on average commercial rates. The Michigan DPP 
provides for an additional payment for Medicaid managed care contracted services. In connection with this program, included in our results of operations 
was approximately $37 million and $17 million recorded during the years ended  December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to this program will approximate $31 million during the year ended December 31, 2025. The 
Michigan DPP for the period of October 1, 2024 to September 30, 2025 is under CMS' review for approval. 
Idaho Upper Payment Limit (“UPL”)
In April 2024, the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare (“IDHW”) released its updated Medicaid UPL calculation for SFY 2024 (July 1, 2023 to 
June 30, 2024) and revised its SFY 2023 (July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023) UPL calculation. Subject to CMS approval, the IDHW plans to continue this UPL 
program through SFY 2025 (July 1, 2024 to June 30, 2025) at payment levels comparable to SFY 2024. In SFY 2026, the IDHW intends to replace the 
UPL program with a Medicaid managed care state directed payment program. We are unable to predict whether payments levels under the planned new 
state directed payment program will be comparable to the SFY 2024 UPL payment levels.
In connection with this program, included in our results of operations was approximately $31 million and $22 million recorded during the years 
ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
 

 
62We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to this program will approximate $19 million during the year ended December 31, 2025.
Washington Safety Net Assessment Program
On April 2, 2024, CMS approved an expanded state directed payment program in Washington whereby payments will now be based on the average 
commercial rates. The program was approved retroactively for the period January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024.  
In connection with this program, included in our results of operations was approximately $46 million and $3 million recorded during the years 
ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to this expanded program will approximate $48 million during the year ended December 31, 
2025. Approval of this program for the period of January 1, 2025 to December 31, 2025 is under CMS' review.
New Mexico State Directed Payment Program (“SDP”)
In November, 2024, CMS approved the New Mexico Medicaid SDP, retroactive to July 1, 2024, based on average commercial rates. The New 
Mexico SDP provides for an additional payment for Medicaid managed care contracted services. In connection with this program, included in our results of 
operations was approximately $8 million in the year ended December 31, 2024. There was no impact from this program included in our results of 
operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. The program requires the submission of an annual report that demonstrates that 75% of the incremental 
net funds were used for the delivery of and access to healthcare services in the state.
The state agency intends to renew the program for calendar year 2025 at payments level consistent with the 2024 annualized payment level. The 
New Mexico SDP for the period of January 1, 2025 to December 31, 2025 is under CMS' review. We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to this 
program will approximate $16 million during the year ended December 31, 2025.
Tennessee Directed Payment Program (“DPP”)
Tennessee SB1740, enacted in May, 2024, imposes an annual coverage assessment on covered hospitals for fiscal year 2024-2025. The total 
assessment on all covered hospitals in the aggregate will be equal to 6% of the federally recognized annual coverage assessment base. The assessment 
proceeds will be used to fund an increase to the state’s DPP payment pool to be based on average commercial rates. In January, 2025, CMS approved the 
DPP payment increase for the period July 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024, contingent upon CMS' approval of the state's 1115 Medicaid Waiver amendment . 
The DPP preprint for calendar year (January 1, 2025 to December 31, 2025) is pending CMS approval.
We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to this program will approximate $28 million during the year ended December 31, 2025 (related 
to the six-month period July 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024), if CMS' approval of the state's 1115 Medicaid Waiver amendment occurs during 2025. In 
addition, although we are unable to predict whether the DPP program for calendar year 2025 will be approved by CMS, or the timing of such approval, 
TennCare's financial models indicate that our annual DPP reimbursements could range from $40 million to $56 million. The "Estimated 2025" amounts 
reflected on the table above do not include any net reimbursements in connection with the Tennessee DPP.
Washington, D.C. State Directed Payment program (“SDP”)
In July, 2024, the Budget Support Act (B24-0784) was approved by the mayor of Washington, D.C. This legislation includes a new Medicaid 
managed care directed payment program that, if ultimately approved, could become effective for the period of October 1, 2024 through September 30, 
2025, with potential subsequent annual programs. Finalization of this program remains contingent upon U.S. Congressional and CMS approval. Estimated 
amounts related to this program are subject to change for various reasons including modifications based upon CMS' review of the preprint payment 
methodology terms, as well as actual Medicaid managed care utilization for hospitals that operate in the District of Columbia, including ours. If ultimately 
approved, there can be no assurance that this program will continue for any period after September 30, 2025, or that it will not be modified.  The 
Washington, D.C., Medicaid agency submitted the SDP preprint to CMS in July 2024, for review and approval. 
Although we cannot predict if this new SDP program will be ultimately approved, or the timing of such approval should it occur, if approved in its 
current form, we estimate that our aggregate net benefit from this program for the period of October 1, 2024 through September 30, 2025, related to our 
two existing hospitals in the market, will approximate $85 million.  The "Estimated 2025" amounts reflected on the table above do not include any net 
reimbursements in connection with the Washington, D.C. SDP program.
Texas DSH and Nevada SPA Programs:
Texas DSH
Upon meeting certain conditions and serving a disproportionately high share of Texas’ low income patients, our qualifying facilities located in 
Texas receive additional reimbursement from the state’s DSH fund. The Texas DSH program was renewed for the state’s 2025 DSH fiscal year (covering 
the period of October 1, 2024 through September 30, 2025).

 
63In connection with this program, included in our results of operations was approximately $36 million and $47 million recorded during the years 
ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
We estimate that our aggregate net reimbursements earned pursuant to the Texas DSH program will approximate $30 million during the year ended 
December 31, 2025.
The Legislation and subsequent federal legislation provides for a significant reduction in Medicaid disproportionate share payments beginning in 
federal fiscal year 2025 (see above in Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform-Medicaid for additional disclosure related to the delay of these DSH 
reductions). HHS is to determine the amount of Medicaid DSH payment cuts imposed on each state based on a defined methodology. As Medicaid DSH 
payments to states will be cut, consequently, payments to Medicaid-participating providers, including our hospitals in Texas, will be reduced in the coming 
years. Based on the CMS final rule published in September, 2019 (as amended by the CARES Act and the CAA), beginning in fiscal year 2025, annual 
Medicaid DSH payments in Texas could be reduced by approximately 41% from current DSH payment levels. A series of federal continuing resolutions 
were passed by the federal government which provided for ongoing federal funding.
In connection with certain previous DSH and UC adverse federal court decisions, including the Children’s Hospital Association of Texas v. Azar, 
we continue to maintain reserves in the financial statements for cumulative Medicaid DSH and UC reimbursements related to our behavioral health 
hospitals located in Texas that amounted to $34 million as of December 31, 2024 and $31 million as of December 31, 2023.
Nevada State Plan Amendment ("SPA")
CMS initially approved an SPA in Nevada in August, 2014 and this SPA has been approved for additional state fiscal years, including the 2024 
fiscal year covering the period of July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024. CMS approval for the 2025 fiscal year, which is still pending, is expected to occur.
In connection with this program, included in our results of operations was approximately $17 million and $25 million recorded during the years 
ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. 
We estimate that our net reimbursements pursuant to this program will approximate $18 million during the year ended December 31, 2025.
Risk Factors Related To State Supplemental Medicaid Payments:
As outlined above, we receive substantial reimbursement from multiple states in connection with various supplemental Medicaid payment programs. 
Failure to renew these programs beyond their scheduled termination dates, failure of the public hospitals to provide the necessary IGTs for the states’ share 
of the DSH programs, failure of our hospitals that currently receive supplemental Medicaid revenues to qualify for future funds under these programs, or 
reductions in reimbursements, could cause our estimates to differ by material amounts which could have a material adverse effect on our future results of 
operations.
In April, 2016, CMS published its final Medicaid Managed Care Rule which explicitly permits but phases out the use of pass-through payments 
(including supplemental payments) by Medicaid Managed Care Organizations (“MCO”) to hospitals over ten years but allows for a transition of the pass-
through payments into value-based payment structures, delivery system reform initiatives or payments tied to services under a MCO contract. Since we are 
unable to determine the financial impact of this aspect of the final rule, we can provide no assurance that the final rule will not have a material adverse 
effect on our future results of operations. In November, 2020, CMS issued a final rule permitting pass-through supplemental provider payments during a 
time-limited period when states transition populations or services from fee-for-service Medicaid to managed care.
We receive Medicaid SDP payments from MCOs authorized by CMS under 42 CFR § 438.6(c). Consistent with capitated rates paid by Medicaid 
state agencies to MCO’s for managing Medicaid beneficiary lives under a risk-based arrangement, SDP program related capitated rates must also be 
developed by the state in accordance with actuarial soundness standards noted at 42 CFR § 438.4 and non-compliance could result in a reduction to SDP 
payment levels. In general, Medicaid SDP payments under 42 CFR § 438.6(c) are subject to annual CMS approval via the submission of a preprint 
application by a state agency which provides details of the SDP payment methodology and conformity with the applicable federal regulations. CMS SDP 
preprint approval, and the timing of such approval, if it occurs, are not certain which can affect the both the SDP payment level and timing of SDP revenue 
recorded by us.
We incur Provider Taxes imposed by states in the form of a licensing fee, assessment or other mandatory payment which are related to: (i) 
healthcare items or services; (ii) the provision of, or the authority to provide, the health care items or services, or; (iii) the payment for the health care items 
or services that are used by respective states to finance the non-federal share of SDP’s (or other Medicaid supplemental payment programs). Such Provider 
Taxes are subject to various federal regulations that limit the scope and amount of the taxes that can be levied by states in order to secure federal matching 
funds as part of their respective state Medicaid supplemental payment programs. States are subject to CMS both concurrent and retrospective review for 
their compliance with the applicable Provider Tax regulations and related federal statute. If CMS determines Provider Taxes used by a state Medicaid 
program to finance the non-federal share of a SDP (or other Medicaid supplemental payment programs) are not in compliance with the 

 
64applicable Provider Tax regulations and related federal statute, Company SDP payments (and other Medicaid supplemental payments) could be subject to 
recoupment by the respective state agency when non-compliance is determined by CMS to exist.
We believe that the SDP (and other state supplemental payment) programs are designed by each state to be in full compliance with the applicable 
federal regulations and federal statutes. However, we are unable to provide assurance CMS will determine on a retroactive basis that a state’s SDP (or other 
Medicaid supplemental payment program) design and Medicaid financing structures is in full compliance with the applicable federal regulations and 
federal statute(s).
On April 22, 2024, CMS issued Medicaid and Children’s Health Insurance Program ("CHIP") Managed Care Access, Finance, and Quality Final 
Rule (“Managed Care Rule”).  CMS intends for the Managed Care Rule to:
• Strengthen standard for timely access to care and states’ monitoring and enforcement efforts;
• Enhance quality and fiscal and program integrity standards for state directed payments (“SDPs”);
• Specify the scope of in lieu of services and settings to better address health-related social needs;
• Further specify medical loss ratio requirements, and;
• Establish a quality rating system for Medicaid and CHIP managed care plans.
The SDP provisions included in the Managed Care Rule:
• Requires that provider payment levels for state directed payments for inpatient and outpatient hospital services, nursing facility services, and 
the professional services at an academic medical center not exceed the average commercial rate;
• Prohibits the use of post-payment reconciliation processes for state directed payments that are based on fee schedules;
• Makes explicit in regulation the existing requirement that state directed payments must comply with all federal laws concerning funding 
sources of the non-federal share, and;
• Requires that states ensure each provider receiving a state directed payment attest that it does not participate in any arrangement that holds 
taxpayers harmless for the cost of a tax. CMS concurrently released an informational bulletin regarding CMS’ exercise of enforcement 
discretion until calendar year 2028 for existing health-care related tax programs with certain hold-harmless arrangements involving the 
redistribution of Medicaid payments.
As disclosed herein, we receive a significant amount of Medicaid and Medicaid managed care revenue from both base payments and supplemental 
payments. Although we are unable to estimate the impact of the Managed Care Rule on our future results of operations, if implemented as proposed, 
Managed Care Rule related changes could have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations.
Future changes to the terms and conditions of the various programs outlined above could materially reduce our net benefit derived from the 
programs which could have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations. In addition, Provider Taxes are governed by both federal and state 
laws and are subject to future legislative changes that, if reduced from current rates in several states, could have a material adverse impact on our future 
results of operations.
A 6.2% increase to the Medicaid Federal Matching Assistance Percentage (“FMAP”) was included in the Families First Coronavirus Response Act. 
The CAA of 2023 provided for the transitional reduction of the 6.2% enhanced FMAP during 2023 to 5.0% during the second quarter, 2.5% during the 
third quarter and 1.5% during the fourth quarter of 2023. The impact of the enhanced FMAP Medicaid supplemental and DSH payments are reflected in 
our financial results for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2024 and 2023.
HITECH Act: In July 2010, HHS published final regulations implementing the health information technology provisions of the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act (referred to as the “HITECH Act”). The final regulation defines the “meaningful use” of Electronic Health Records 
(“EHR”) and establishes the requirements for the Medicare and Medicaid EHR payment incentive programs. The final rule established an initial set of 
standards and certification criteria. The implementation period for these Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments started in federal fiscal year 2011 and 
can end as late as 2016 for Medicare and 2021 for the state Medicaid programs. State Medicaid program participation in this federally funded incentive 
program is voluntary but all of the states in which our eligible hospitals operate have chosen to participate. Our acute care hospitals qualified for these EHR 
incentive payments upon implementation of the EHR application assuming they meet the “meaningful use” criteria. The government’s ultimate goal is to 
promote more effective (quality) and efficient healthcare delivery through the use of technology to reduce the total cost of healthcare for all Americans and 
utilizing the cost savings to expand access to the healthcare system.
All of our acute care hospitals have met the applicable meaningful use criteria. However, under the HITECH Act, hospitals must continue to meet 
the applicable meaningful use criteria in each fiscal year or they will be subject to a market basket update reduction in a subsequent fiscal year. Failure of 
our acute care hospitals to continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria would have an adverse effect on our future net revenues and results of 
operations.

 
65In the 2019 IPPS final rule, CMS overhauled the Medicare and Medicaid EHR Incentive Program to focus on interoperability, improve flexibility, 
relieve burden and place emphasis on measures that require the electronic exchange of health information between providers and patients. We can provide 
no assurance that the changes will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.
Managed Care: A significant portion of our net patient revenues are generated from managed care companies, which include health maintenance 
organizations, preferred provider organizations and managed Medicare (referred to as Medicare Part C or Medicare Advantage) and Medicaid programs. In 
general, we expect the percentage of our business from managed care programs to continue to grow. The consequent growth in managed care networks and 
the resulting impact of these networks on the operating results of our facilities vary among the markets in which we operate. Typically, we receive lower 
payments per patient from managed care payers than we do from traditional indemnity insurers, however, during the past few years we have secured price 
increases from many of our commercial payers including managed care companies.
Commercial Insurance: Our hospitals also provide services to individuals covered by private health care insurance. Private insurance carriers 
typically make direct payments to hospitals or, in some cases, reimburse their policy holders, based upon the particular hospital’s established charges and 
the particular coverage provided in the insurance policy. Private insurance reimbursement varies among payers and states and is generally based on 
contracts negotiated between the hospital and the payer.
Commercial insurers are continuing efforts to limit the payments for hospital services by adopting discounted payment mechanisms, including 
predetermined payment or DRG-based payment systems, for more inpatient and outpatient services. To the extent that such efforts are successful and 
reduce the insurers’ reimbursement to hospitals and the costs of providing services to their beneficiaries, such reduced levels of reimbursement may have a 
negative impact on the operating results of our hospitals.
Surprise Billing Interim Final Rule: On September 30, 2021, the Department of Labor, and the Department of the Treasury, along with the Office 
of Personnel Management (“OPM”), released an interim final rule with comment period, entitled “Requirements Related to Surprise Billing; Part II.” This 
rule is related to Title I (the “No Surprises Act”) of Division BB of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, and establishes new protections from 
surprise billing and excessive cost sharing for consumers receiving health care items/services. It implements additional protections against surprise medical 
bills under the No Surprises Act, including provisions related to the independent dispute resolution ("IDR") process, good faith estimates for uninsured (or 
self-pay) individuals, the patient-provider dispute resolution process, and expanded rights to external review. On February 28, 2022, a district judge in the 
Eastern District of Texas invalidated portions of the rule governing aspects of the IDR process. In light of this decision, the government issued a final rule 
on August 19, 2022 eliminating the rebuttable presumption in favor of the qualifying payment amount by the IDR entity and providing additional factors 
the IDR entity should consider when choosing between two competing offers. CMS regulations and guidance implementing the IDR process has been 
subject to a significant amount of provider-initiated litigation. As a result, portions of those regulations and guidance materials have been vacated by a 
federal district court, causing CMS to, on several occasions, pause and resume IDR process operations, causing significant delay in the processing of 
claims. On October 27, 2023, HHS, the Department of Labor, the Department of the Treasury, and OPM issued a proposed rule intended to improve the 
functioning of the federal IDR process. Additionally, arguments made by the plaintiffs in such litigation have included allegations that CMS’s regulations 
and guidance materials are favorable to payers. We cannot predict the impact of the proposed rule on our operations at this time.
Other Sources: Our hospitals provide services to individuals that do not have any form of health care coverage. Such patients are evaluated, at the 
time of service or shortly thereafter, for their ability to pay based upon federal and state poverty guidelines, qualifications for Medicaid or other state 
assistance programs, as well as our local hospitals’ indigent and charity care policy. Patients without health care coverage who do not qualify for Medicaid 
or indigent care write-offs are offered substantial discounts in an effort to settle their outstanding account balances.
Health Care Reform: Listed below are the Medicare, Medicaid and other health care industry changes which have been, or are scheduled to be, 
implemented as a result of the Legislation.
Medicaid Federal DSH Allotment 
Although the implementation has been delayed several times, the Legislation (as amended by subsequent federal legislation) requires annual 
aggregate reductions in federal Medicaid DSH allotment from FFY 2025 through FFY 2027. Commencing in federal fiscal year 2025, and continuing 
through 2027, DSH payments are scheduled to be reduced by $8 billion annually. The American Relief Act, 2025 (HR 10545, Public Law No. 118-158) 
enacted into law on December 21, 2024 postponed the scheduled ACA Medicaid DSH cuts that were to take effect January 1, 2025 to April 1, 2025.  The 
$8 billion DSH reduction for FFY 2025 will be implemented over six months rather than twelve months if not delayed further by Congressional action. 
Value-Based Purchasing
There is a trend in the healthcare industry toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services. These value-based purchasing programs include 
both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. Governmental programs 
including Medicare and Medicaid currently require hospitals to report certain quality 

 
66data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition, Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events. Many large 
commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable 
adverse events.
The Legislation required HHS to implement a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services which became effective on October 1, 
2012. The Legislation requires HHS to reduce inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by 2% in FFY 2017 and subsequent years. HHS will pool the 
amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by 
HHS. HHS will determine the amount each hospital that meets or exceeds the quality performance standards will receive from the pool of dollars created 
by these payment reductions. As part of the FFY 2022 IPPS final rule and FFY 2023 final rule, as discussed above, and as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic, CMS has implemented a budget neutral payment policy to fully offset the 2% VBP withhold during each of FFY 2022 and FFY 2023. In FFY 
2024, as part of the FFY 2024 IPPS final rule, CMS removed the budget neutral policy that was in place in FFY 2022 and FFY 2023.
Hospital Acquired Conditions
The Legislation prohibits the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat 
hospital acquired conditions (“HAC”). Beginning in FFY 2015, hospitals that fall into the top 25% of national risk-adjusted HAC rates for all hospitals in 
the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total Medicare payments. As part of the FFY 2023 final rule discussed above, and as a result of the 
on-going COVID-19 pandemic, CMS suppressed all nine measures in the HAC Reduction Program for the FY 2023 program year and eliminated the HAC 
reduction program’s one percent payment penalty. In FFY 2024, as part of the FFY 2024 IPPS final rule, CMS eliminated the suppression of the applicable 
HAC measures and as a result reinstated the HAC reduction program.
Readmission Reduction Program
In the Legislation, Congress also mandated implementation of the hospital readmission reduction program (“HRRP”). Hospitals with excessive 
readmissions for conditions designated by HHS will receive reduced payments for all inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions 
subject to the excessive readmission standard. The HRRP currently assesses penalties on hospitals having excess readmission rates for heart failure, 
myocardial infarction, pneumonia, acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ("COPD") and elective total hip arthroplasty ("THA") 
and/or total knee arthroplasty ("TKA"), excluding planned readmissions, when compared to expected rates. In the fiscal year 2015 IPPS final rule, CMS 
added readmissions for coronary artery bypass graft ("CABG") surgical procedures beginning in fiscal year 2017. To account for excess readmissions, an 
applicable hospital's base operating DRG payment amount is adjusted for each discharge occurring during the fiscal year. Readmissions payment 
adjustment factors can be no more than a 3% reduction. As part of the FFY 2023 IPPS final rule discussed above, CMS modified all of the condition-
specific readmission measures to include an adjustment for patient history of COVID-19 for FFY 2024.
Accountable Care Organizations
The Legislation requires HHS to establish a Medicare Shared Savings Program that promotes accountability and coordination of care through the 
creation of accountable care organizations (“ACOs”). The ACO program allows providers (including hospitals), physicians and other designated 
professionals and suppliers to voluntarily work together to invest in infrastructure and redesign delivery processes to achieve high quality and efficient 
delivery of services. The program is intended to produce savings as a result of improved quality and operational efficiency. ACOs that achieve quality 
performance standards established by HHS will be eligible to share in a portion of the amounts saved by the Medicare program. CMS also developed and 
implemented more advanced ACO payment models that require ACOs to assume greater risk for attributed beneficiaries. Through various subsidiaries, we 
participate in ACOs in many of our acute care hospital markets.
Infectious Disease Outbreaks, Pandemics, or Other Public Health Emergencies or Crisis 
Our business and financial results may be harmed by an international, national or localized outbreak of a highly contagious or epidemic disease, 
including but not limited to, COVID-19 or similar corona viruses, Ebola or Zika, may put stress on the capacity of all or a part of our health care facilities, 
could result in an abnormally high demand for health care services, require that resources be diverted from one part of operations to another part, or disrupt 
the supply chain for equipment and supplies necessary for operations. In addition, unaffected individuals may decide to defer elective procedures or 
otherwise avoid medical treatment, resulting in reduced patient volumes and operating revenues.
In addition to statutory and regulatory changes to the Medicare program and each of the state Medicaid programs, our operations and reimbursement 
may be affected by administrative rulings, new or novel interpretations and determinations of existing laws and regulations, post-payment audits, 
requirements for utilization review and new governmental funding restrictions, all of which may materially increase or decrease program payments as well 
as affect the cost of providing services and the timing of payments to our facilities. The final determination of amounts we receive under the Medicare and 
Medicaid programs often takes many years, because of audits by the program representatives, providers’ rights of appeal and the application of numerous 
technical reimbursement provisions. We believe that we have made adequate provisions for such potential adjustments. Nevertheless, until final 
adjustments are 

 
67made, certain issues remain unresolved and previously determined allowances could become either inadequate or more than ultimately required.
Finally, we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. Reductions in reimbursement 
amounts received from third-party payers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results.
Other Operating Results
Interest Expense
As reflected on the schedule below, interest expense was  $186 million during 2024 and $207 million during 2023 (amounts in thousands):
  2024   2023  
Revolving credit & demand notes (a.)  $ 18,770  $ 23,139 
Tranche A term loan, extinguished (a.)   113,934   155,673 
Tranche A term loan, 2029 (a.)   20,001   — 
$800 million, 2.65% Senior Notes due 2030 (b.)   21,426   21,426 
$700 million, 1.65% Senior Notes due 2026 (c.)   11,725   11,725 
$500 million, 2.65% Senior Notes due 2032 (d.)   13,380   13,380 
$500 million, 4.625% Senior Notes due 2029 (e.)   6,113   — 
$500 million, 5.05% Senior Notes due 2034 (f.)   6,705   — 
Subtotal - revolving credit, term loan A and Senior Notes   212,054   225,343 
Amortization of financing fees   5,021   5,035 
Other combined interest expense   9,381   1,290 
Capitalized interest on major projects   (38,922)  (24,422)
Interest income   (1,425)  (572)
Interest expense, net  $ 186,109  $ 206,674 
 
(a.)On September 26, 2024, we entered into the tenth amendment to our credit agreement dated November 15, 2010, as amended and restated at 
various times from March, 2011 to June, 2022 (the "Credit Agreement"). The tenth amendment provides for, among other things, the 
following: (i) an extension of the maturity date to September 26, 2029; (ii) a $100 million increase in the revolving credit facility to $1.3 billion 
of aggregate borrowing capacity (which as of December 31, 2024, had $1.17 billion of aggregate available borrowing capacity, net of $130 
million of borrowings outstanding and $3 million of letters of credit), and; (iii) a $1.0 billion reduction in the outstanding borrowings pursuant 
to the tranche A term loan facility, to $1.2 billion from $2.2 billion previously, utilizing the proceeds generated from the September, 2024, 
issuance of the below-mentioned senior notes due in 2029 and 2034.
(b.)In September, 2020, we completed the offering of $800 million aggregate principal amount of 2.65% Senior Notes due in 2030.  
(c.)In August, 2021, we completed the offering of $700 million aggregate principal amount of 1.65% Senior Notes due in 2026.
(d.)In August, 2021, we completed the offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.65% Senior Notes due in 2032.
(e.)On September 26, 2024, we completed the offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Senior Notes due in 2029.
(f.)On September 26, 2024, we completed the offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.050% Senior Notes due in 2034.
Interest expense decreased by $21 million during 2024 to $186 million as compared to $207 million during 2023. The decrease was primarily due 
to: (i) a net $13 million decrease in aggregate interest expense on our revolving credit, term loan A and senior notes, resulting from a decrease in our 
aggregate average cost of borrowings pursuant to these facilities (4.65% during 2024 as compared to 4.8% during 2023), as well as a decrease in the 
aggregate average outstanding borrowings ($4.47 billion during 2024 as compared to $4.63 billion during 2023); (ii) a $15 million decrease resulting from 
an increase in capitalized interest on major projects,  partially offset by; (iii) a net $7 million increase in other combined interest expenses. 
The average effective interest rate, including amortization of deferred financing costs, on borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit, term 
loan A and senior notes, which amounted to approximately $4.47 billion as of 2024 and $4.63 billion as of 2023, were 4.8% during 2024 and 4.9% during 
2023.             
Provision for Asset Impairments   

 
68Our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2022, include a pre-tax provision for asset impairment of approximately $58 million, 
which is included in other operating expenses on the accompanying consolidated statements of income, to write-down the asset value of Desert Springs 
Hospital Medical Center, a 282-bed acute care hospital located in Las Vegas, Nevada. In early 2023, as a result of various competitive pressures and 
operational challenges experienced in the market, which had a significant unfavorable impact on the hospital's results of operations during the past year, as 
well as physical plant constraints and limitations resulting from the advanced age of the facility (which opened in 1971), we announced plans to 
discontinue all inpatient operations by March of 2023. For a period of time, we plan to continue providing emergency department services within a portion 
of the existing facility while we construct a new free-standing emergency department on the hospital's campus. The provision for asset impairment reduced 
the asset values of the facility's real estate and equipment to their estimated fair values.       
Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rates
The effective tax rates, as calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by income before income taxes, were as follows for each of the 
years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 (dollar amounts in thousands):
 
  2024   2023   
Provision for income taxes  $ 334,827  $ 221,119  
Income before income taxes   1,497,936   940,426  
Effective tax rate   22.4%  23.5% 
The provision for income taxes increased $114 million during 2024, as compared to 2023, due primarily to: (i) the increase in the provision for 
income taxes resulting from the $538 million increase in pre-tax income (consisting of $558 million increase in income before income taxes minus a $20 
million increase in the income/loss attributable to noncontrolling interests), partially offset by; (ii) a $16 million decrease in the provision for income taxes 
during 2024, as compared to 2023, from the net tax benefit recorded pursuant to ASU 2016-09, net of the impact of executive compensation limitations 
pursuant to IRC section 162(m).   
Due to recent guidance and enacted laws surrounding the global 15% minimum tax rate that will be effective after 2024 from the Organization for 
Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD"), as well as jurisdictions that we operate in, we anticipate adverse effects to our provision for income 
taxes as well as cash taxes. Currently, the United States has not enacted legislation that aligns with the OECD global minimum tax rate. We do not expect 
these effects to be material and will continue to monitor changes in tax policies and laws issued by the OECD and jurisdictions in which we operate.
Effects of Inflation and Seasonality
Seasonality —Our acute care services business is typically seasonal, with higher patient volumes and net patient service revenue in the first and 
fourth quarters of the year. This seasonality occurs because, generally, more people become ill during the winter months, which results in significant 
increases in the number of patients treated in our hospitals during those months.
Inflation — See disclosure above in Results of Operations-Clinical Staffing, Physician Related Expenses and Effects of Inflation.    
Liquidity
Year ended December 31, 2024 as compared to December 31, 2023:
Net cash provided by operating activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $2.067 billion during 2024 as compared to $1.268 million during 2023. The net increase of $799 
million was primarily attributable to the following:
• a favorable change of $472 million resulting from an increase in net income plus/minus depreciation and amortization expense, stock-based 
compensation expense, gains on sales of assets and businesses and costs related to the extinguishment of debt;
• a favorable change of $250 million in accounts receivable due, in part, to a decrease in our days sales outstanding as of December 31, 2024, 
as compared to December 31, 2023, as discussed below;    
• a favorable change of $94 million from other working capital accounts due primarily to the timing of disbursements for certain accrued 
liabilities;  
• an unfavorable change of $61 million in other assets and deferred charges;
• a favorable change of $56 million in accrued and deferred income taxes, and; 
• $12 million of other combined net unfavorable changes. 
Days sales outstanding (“DSO”):  Our DSO are calculated by dividing our net revenue by the number of days in the year. The result is divided into 
the accounts receivable balance at the end of the year. Our DSO were 50 days at December 31, 2024 and 57 days at December 31, 2023. 

 
69Net cash used in investing activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $911 million during 2024 and $763 million during 2023.
2024:
The $911 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2024 consisted of:
• $944 million spent on capital expenditures including capital expenditures for equipment, renovations and new projects at various existing 
facilities;
• $39 million of proceeds received from sales of assets and businesses;
• $19 million spent on the acquisition of businesses and property, and;
• $13 million received in connection with net cash inflows from forward exchange contracts that hedge our investment in the U.K. against 
movements in exchange rates;
2023:
The $763 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2023 consisted of:
• $743 million spent on capital expenditures including capital expenditures for equipment, renovations and new projects at various existing 
facilities;
• $41 million paid in connection with net cash outflows from forward exchange contracts that hedge our investment in the U.K. against 
movements in exchange rates;
• $24 million of proceeds received from sales of assets and businesses, and;
• $4 million spent on the acquisition of businesses and property. 
Net cash used in financing activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $1.145 billion during 2024 and $494 million during 2023.
2024:
The $1.145 billion of net cash used in financing activities during 2024 consisted of the following:
• spent $2.640 billion on net repayments of debt as follows: (i) $2.259 billion related to our previous tranche A term loan facility which was 
extinguished in September, 2024, and replaced with a new $1.2 billion tranche A term loan facility; (ii) $366 million related to our revolving 
credit facility, and; (iii) $15 million related to other debt facilities;
• generated $2.210 billion of proceeds from additional borrowings as follows: (i) $1.200 billion related to our new tranche A term loan facility, 
as mentioned above; (ii) generated approximately $500 million of net proceeds (before expenses) related to the public offering, in September, 
2024, of 4.625% senior secured notes due in 2029; (iii) generated approximately $498 million of net proceeds (before expenses) related to the 
public offering, in September, 2024, of 5.050% senior secured notes due in 2034, and; (iv) $12 million of proceeds related to other debt 
facilities;
• spent $671 million to repurchase shares of our Class B Common Stock in connection with: (i) open market purchases pursuant to our stock 
repurchase program ($599 million), and; (ii) income tax withholding obligations related to stock-based compensation programs ($72 
million);
• spent $53 million to pay quarterly cash dividends of $.20 per share; 
• generated $15 million from the issuance of shares of our Class B Common Stock pursuant to the terms of employee stock purchase plans;
• received $13 million from the sale of ownership interests to minority members;
• spent $13 million to pay financing costs, and;
• spent $7 million to pay profit distributions related to noncontrolling interests in majority owned businesses.
2023:
The $494 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2023 consisted of the following:
• generated $185 million of proceeds from additional borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility;
• spent $547 million to repurchase shares of our Class B Common Stock in connection with: (i) open market purchases pursuant to our stock 
repurchase program ($524 million), and; (ii) income tax withholding obligations related to stock-based compensation programs ($23 
million);
• spent $85 million on net repayment of debt as follows: (i) $79 million related to our tranche A term loan facility, and; (ii) $6 million related 
to other debt facilities; 

 
70• spent $55 million to pay quarterly cash dividends of $.20 per share; 
• generated $14 million from the issuance of shares of our Class B Common Stock pursuant to the terms of employee stock purchase plans;
• spent $7 million to pay profit distributions related to noncontrolling interests in majority owned businesses, and;
• received $3 million for the purchase of minority ownership interests in majority owned businesses.    
2025 Expected Capital Expenditures:
During 2025, we expect to spend approximately $850 million to $1.000 billion on capital expenditures which includes expenditures for capital 
equipment, construction of new facilities, and renovations and expansions at existing hospitals. We believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate 
to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. We expect to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions with internally generated funds and/or 
additional funds, as discussed below.
Capital Resources:
Credit Facilities and Outstanding Debt Securities
In September, 2024, we completed the following financing transactions:
• The public offering of $500 million of aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior secured notes due on October 15, 2029 ("2029 Notes");
• The public offering of $500 million of aggregate principal amount of 5.050% senior secured notes due on October 15, 2034 ("2034 Notes");
• Amended our credit agreement to:
o Extend the maturity date to September, 2029 (from August, 2026 previously);
o Increase the revolving credit facility to $1.3 billion (from $1.2 billion previously), and;
o reduce the outstanding borrowings pursuant to the tranche term loan A facility by approximately $1.0 billion, to $1.2 billion, utilizing 
the proceeds generated from the issuance of the above-mentioned 2029 Notes and 2034 Notes.
On September 26, 2024, we entered into a tenth amendment ("Tenth Amendment") to our credit agreement ("Credit Agreement"), dated as of 
November 15, 2010, as amended and restated at various times from March, 2011 to June, 2022, among UHS, as borrower, the several banks and other 
financial institutions or entities from time to time parties thereto, as lenders, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent. The Tenth 
Amendment provided for: (i) an extension of the maturity date to September 26, 2029; (ii) a new revolving credit facility of up to $1.3 billion (which as of 
December 31, 2024, had $1.17 billion of aggregate available borrowing capacity, net of $130 million of outstanding borrowings and $3 million of letters of 
credit), and; (iii) a new replacement tranche A term loan facility ("Tranche A Term Loan") of up to $1.2 billion (which had $1.19 billion of outstanding 
borrowings as of December 31, 2024).
Pursuant to the terms of the Tenth Amendment, the Tranche A Term Loan provides for installment payments of $7.5 million per quarter 
commencing on December 31, 2024 through September 30, 2026, and $15.0 million per quarter commencing on December 31, 2026 through June 30, 
2029. The unpaid principal balance at June 30, 2029 (scheduled to be $975.0 million) is payable on the September 26, 2029 scheduled maturity date of the 
Credit Agreement.
Revolving credit and Tranche A Term Loan borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at our election at either (1) the ABR rate which is 
defined as the rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the lender’s prime rate, (b) the greater of the federal funds effective rate and the overnight bank 
funding rate, plus 0.5% and (c) one month term SOFR rate plus 1.1%, in each case, plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at 
the end of each quarter ranging from 0.25% to 0.625%, or (2) the one, three or six month term SOFR rate plus 0.1% (at our election), plus an applicable 
margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 1.25% to 1.625%. As of December 31, 2024, the applicable 
margins were 0.375% for ABR-based loans and 1.375% for SOFR-based loans under the revolving credit and term loan A facilities.  The revolving credit 
facility includes a $125 million sub-limit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement is secured by certain assets of the Company and our material 
subsidiaries (which generally excludes asset classes such as substantially all of the patient-related accounts receivable of our acute care hospitals, if sold to 
a receivables facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and certain real estate assets and assets held in joint-ventures with third parties) and is guaranteed 
by our material subsidiaries.
The Credit Agreement includes a material adverse change clause that must be represented at each draw. The Credit Agreement also contains 
covenants that include a limitation on sales of assets, mergers, change of ownership, liens, indebtedness, transactions with affiliates, dividends and stock 
repurchases; and requires compliance with financial covenants including maximum leverage. We were in compliance with all required covenants as of 
December 31, 2024 (pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, as amended on September 26, 2024) and as of December 31, 2023 (pursuant to the 
terms of the previous credit agreement).

 
71As mentioned above, on September 26, 2024, we completed the public offering of: (i) $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 4.625%, 
2029 Notes, and; (ii) $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 5.050%, 2034 Notes (and together with the 2029 Notes, the "2029 and 2034 Notes"), 
each guaranteed on a senior secured basis by all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries that guarantee our senior secured credit facility or 
our other first lien obligations or any junior lien obligations (the “Subsidiary Guarantors”).  The 2029 and 2034 Notes have been registered under the 
Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), pursuant to the Issuer’s and the Subsidiary Guarantors’ registration statement on Form S-3 (File 
No. 333-282135), including the prospectus dated September 16, 2024, and a related prospectus supplement dated September 17, 2024, as filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on September 19, 2024.
As of December 31, 2024, including the above-mentioned newly issued Notes, we had combined aggregate principal of $3.0 billion from the 
following senior secured notes:
• $700 million aggregate principal amount of 1.65% senior secured notes due in September, 2026 ("2026 Notes") which were issued on August 
24, 2021. Interest on the 2026 Notes is payable on March 1st and September 1st until the maturity date of September 1, 2026.
• $500 million of aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior secured notes due in October, 2029 ("2029 Notes") which were issued on 
September 26, 2024. Interest on the 2029 Notes is payable on April 15th and October 15th, commencing April 15, 2025 until the maturity 
date of October 15, 2029.
• $800 million aggregate principal amount of 2.65% senior secured notes due in October, 2030 ("2030 Notes") which were issued on 
September 21, 2020. Interest on the 2030 Notes is payable on April 15th and October 15th, until the maturity date of October 15, 2030.
• $500 million of aggregate principal amount of 2.65% senior secured notes due in January, 2032 ("2032 Notes") which were issued on August 
24, 2021. Interest on the 2032 Notes is payable on January 15th and July 15th until the maturity date of January 15, 2032.
• $500 million of aggregate principal amount of 5.050% senior secured notes due in October, 2034 ("2034 Notes") which were issued on 
September 26, 2024. Interest on the 2034 Notes is payable on April 15th and October 15th, commencing on April 15, 2025 until the maturity 
date of October 15, 2034.
The 2026 Notes, 2030 Notes and 2032 Notes (collectively the "2026, 2030 and 2032 Notes") were initially issued only to qualified institutional 
buyers under Rule 144A and to non-U.S. persons outside the United States in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. In December, 2022, we 
completed a registered exchange offer in which virtually all previously outstanding 2026, 2030 and 2032 Notes were exchanged for identical 2026, 2030 
and 2032 Notes that were registered under the Securities Act, and thereby became freely transferable (subject to certain restrictions applicable to affiliates 
and broker dealers). 2026, 2030 and 2032 Notes originally issued under Rule 144A or Regulation S that were not exchanged remain outstanding and may 
not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration under the Securities Act or an applicable exemption from registration requirements 
thereunder.
The 2026, 2030 and 2032 Notes, and the 2029 and 2034 Notes (collectively "All the Notes") are guaranteed (the “Guarantees”) on a senior secured 
basis by our Subsidiary Guarantors that guarantee our Credit Agreement, or other first lien obligations or any junior lien obligations.  All the Notes and the 
Guarantees are secured by first-priority liens, subject to permitted liens, on certain of the Company’s and the Subsidiary Guarantors’ assets now owned or 
acquired in the future by the Company or the Subsidiary Guarantors (other than real property, accounts receivable sold pursuant to a Company-related 
receivables facility (as defined in the Indenture pursuant to which All the Notes were issued (the “Indentures”), and certain other excluded assets). The 
Company’s obligations with respect to All the Notes, the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under the Guarantees, and the performance of all of the 
Company’s and the Subsidiary Guarantors’ other obligations under the Indentures, are secured equally and ratably with the Company’s and the Subsidiary 
Guarantors’ obligations under the Credit Agreement. However, the liens on the collateral securing All the Notes and the Guarantees will be released if: (i) 
All the Notes have investment grade ratings; (ii) no default has occurred and is continuing, and; (iii) the liens on the collateral securing all first lien 
obligations (including the Credit Agreement and All the Notes) and any junior lien obligations are released or the collateral under the Credit Agreement, 
any other first lien obligations and any junior lien obligations is released or no longer required to be pledged. The liens on any collateral securing All the 
Notes and the Guarantees will also be released if the liens on that collateral securing the Credit Agreement, other first lien obligations and any junior lien 
obligations are released.
As discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Relationship with Universal Health Realty Income Trust and Other Related Party 
Transactions, on December 31, 2021, we (through wholly-owned subsidiaries of ours) entered into an asset purchase and sale agreement with Universal 
Health Realty Income Trust (the “Trust”).  Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, as amended, we, among other things, transferred to the Trust, the real 
estate assets of Aiken Regional Medical Center (“Aiken”) and Canyon Creek Behavioral Health (“Canyon Creek”).  In connection with this transaction, 
Aiken and Canyon Creek (as lessees), entered into a master lease and individual property leases, as amended, (with the Trust as lessor), for initial lease 
terms on each property of approximately twelve years, ending on December 31, 2033.  As a result of our purchase option within the Aiken and Canyon 
Creek lease agreements, this asset purchase and sale transaction is accounted for as a failed sale leaseback in accordance with 

 
72U.S. GAAP and we have accounted for the transaction as a financing arrangement. Our lease payments payable to the Trust are recorded to interest expense 
and as a reduction of the outstanding financial liability, and the amount allocated to interest expense is determined based upon our incremental borrowing 
rate and the outstanding financial liability. In connection with this transaction, our consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2024 and December 31, 
2023 reflect financial liabilities, which are included in debt, of approximately $74 million and $77 million, respectively.
At December 31, 2024, the carrying value and fair value of our debt were approximately $4.5 billion and $4.2 billion, respectively. At December 31, 
2023, the carrying value and fair value of our debt were approximately $4.9 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively. The fair value of our debt was computed 
based upon quotes received from financial institutions. We consider these to be “level 2” in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance 
for disclosures in connection with debt instruments.
Our total debt as a percentage of total capitalization was approximately 40% at December 31, 2024 and 44% at December 31, 2023.  
We expect to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions and pay dividends and potentially repurchase shares of our common stock utilizing 
internally generated and additional funds. Additional funds may be obtained through: (i) borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility, which had 
$1.17 billion of available borrowing capacity as of December 31, 2024, or through refinancing the existing Credit Agreement; (ii) the issuance of other 
short-term and/or long-term debt, and/or; (iii) the issuance of equity. We believe that our operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents, available 
commitments under existing agreements, as well as access to the capital markets, provide us with sufficient capital resources to fund our operating, 
investing and financing requirements for the next twelve months. However, in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, 
there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. Our inability to obtain financing on 
terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information
As of December 31, 2024, we had combined aggregate principal of $3.0 billion from All the Notes:
• $700 million aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes;
• $500 million aggregate principal amount of the 2029 Notes;
• $800 million aggregate principal amount of the 2030 Notes;
• $500 million of aggregate principal amount of the 2032 Notes, and;
• $500 million of aggregate principal amount of the 2034 Notes.
All the Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed pursuant to the Guarantees on a senior secured basis by the Subsidiary Guarantors.  All the 
Notes and the Guarantees are secured by first-priority liens, subject to permitted liens, on certain of the Company’s and the Subsidiary Guarantors’ assets 
now owned or acquired in the future by the Company or the Subsidiary Guarantors (other than real property, accounts receivable sold pursuant to the 
Company’s existing receivables facility (as defined in the Indentures pursuant to which All the Notes were issued), and certain other excluded assets). The 
Company’s obligations with respect to All the Notes, the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under the Guarantees, and the performance of all of the 
Company’s and the Subsidiary Guarantors’ other obligations under the Indentures, are secured equally and ratably with the Company’s and the Subsidiary 
Guarantors’ obligations under the Credit Agreement and All the Notes by a perfected first-priority security interest, subject to permitted liens, in the 
collateral owned by the Company and its Subsidiary Guarantors, whether now owned or hereafter acquired. However, the liens on the collateral securing 
All the Notes and the Guarantees will be released if: (i) All the Notes have investment grade ratings; (ii) no default has occurred and is continuing, and; (iii) 
the liens on the collateral securing all first lien obligations (including the Credit Agreement and All the Notes) and any junior lien obligations are released 
or the collateral under the Credit Agreement, any other first lien obligations and any junior lien obligations is released or no longer required to be pledged. 
The liens on any collateral securing All the Notes and the Guarantees will also be released if the liens on that collateral securing the Credit Agreement, 
other first lien obligations and any junior lien obligations are released.
All the Notes will be structurally subordinated to all obligations of our existing and future subsidiaries that are not and do not become Subsidiary 
Guarantors of All the Notes. No appraisal of the value of the collateral has been made, and the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend 
on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. Consequently, liquidating the collateral securing All the Notes may not 
produce proceeds in an amount sufficient to pay any amounts due on All the Notes.  
We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although our Credit Agreement contains restrictions on 
the incurrence of additional indebtedness and our Credit Agreement and All the Notes contain restrictions on our ability to incur liens to secure additional 
indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these 
restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. In addition, if we 
incur any additional indebtedness secured by liens that rank equally with All the Notes, subject to collateral arrangements, the holders of that debt will be 
entitled to share 

 
73ratably with holders of All the Notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other 
winding up of our company. This may have the effect of reducing the amount of proceeds paid to holders of All the Notes.
Federal and state fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes may apply to the issuance of All the Notes and the incurrence of the Guarantees. Under 
federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws, which may vary from state to state, All the Notes or the 
Guarantees (or the grant of collateral securing any such obligations) could be voided as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance if we or any of the Subsidiary 
Guarantors, as applicable, (a) issued All the Notes or incurred the Guarantees with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or (b) under 
certain circumstances received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for either issuing All the Notes or incurring the 
Guarantees.
Basis of Presentation
The following tables include summarized financial information of Universal Health Services, Inc. and the other obligors in respect of debt issued by 
Universal Health Services, Inc. The summarized financial information of each obligor group is presented on a combined basis with balances and 
transactions within the obligor group eliminated. Investments in and the equity in earnings of non-guarantor subsidiaries, which would otherwise be 
consolidated in accordance with GAAP, are excluded from the below summarized financial information pursuant to SEC Regulation S-X Rule 13-01.
The summarized balance sheet information for the consolidated obligor group of debt issued by Universal Health Services, Inc. is presented in the 
table below:
      
(in thousands) December 31, 2024   December 31, 2023  
Current assets $ 2,279,988  $ 2,292,716 
Noncurrent assets (1) $ 9,214,924  $ 8,876,623 
Current liabilities $ 1,870,563  $ 1,786,642 
Noncurrent liabilities $ 5,451,167  $ 5,728,371 
Due to non-guarantors $ 912,958  $ 913,481 
(1) Includes goodwill of $3,262 million and $3,267 million as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.  
The summarized results of operations information for the consolidated obligor group of debt issued by Universal Health Services, Inc. is presented in 
the table below:
 Twelve Months Ended  Twelve Months Ended 
(in thousands) December 31, 2024   December 31, 2023  
Net revenues $ 12,642,381  $ 11,454,260 
Operating charges  11,200,769   10,416,176 
Interest expense, net  248,568   277,521 
Other (income) expense, net  (3,186)  24,996 
Net income $ 920,944  $ 556,423 
Affiliates Whose Securities Collateralize the Senior Secured Notes
All the Notes and the Guarantees are secured by, among other things, pledges of the capital stock of our subsidiaries held by us or by our secured 
Guarantors, in each case other than certain excluded assets and subject to permitted liens.  Such collateral securities are secured equally and ratably with 
our and the Guarantors’ obligations under our Credit Agreement.  For a list of our subsidiaries the capital stock of which has been pledged to secure All the 
Notes, see Exhibit 22.1 to this Report.
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default under the indentures governing All the Notes, subject to the terms of the 
Security Agreement relating to All the Notes provide for (among other available remedies) the foreclosure upon and sale of the Collateral (including the 
pledged stock) and the distribution of the net proceeds of any such sale to the holders of All the Notes, the lenders under the Credit Agreement and the 
holders of any other permitted first priority secured obligations on a pro rata basis, subject to any prior liens on the collateral.
No appraisal of the value of the collateral securities has been made, and the value of the collateral securities in the event of liquidation will depend on 
market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. Consequently, liquidating the collateral securities securing All the Notes may 
not produce proceeds in an amount sufficient to pay any amounts due on All the Notes.
The security agreement relating to All the Notes provides that the representative of the lenders under our Credit Agreement will initially control 
actions with respect to that collateral and, consequently, exercise of any right, remedy or power with respect to enforcing interests in or realizing upon such 
collateral will initially be at the direction of the representative of the lenders.

 
74No trading market exists for the capital stock pledged as collateral.
The assets, liabilities and results of operations of the combined affiliates whose securities are pledged as collateral are not materially different than the 
corresponding amounts presented in the consolidated financial information of Universal Health Services, Inc.
Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of December 31, 2024 we were party to certain off balance sheet arrangements consisting of standby letters of credit and surety bonds which 
totaled $154 million consisting of: (i) $130 million related to our self-insurance programs, and; (ii) $24 million of other debt and public utility guarantees. 
Obligations under operating leases for real property, real property master leases and equipment amount to $919 million as of December 31, 2024. 
The real property master leases are leases for buildings on or near hospital property for which we guarantee a certain level of rental income. We sublease 
space in these buildings and any amounts received from these subleases are offset against the expense. In addition, we lease certain hospital facilities from 
Universal Health Realty Income Trust (the “Trust”) with terms scheduled to expire in 2026, 2033 and 2040. These leases contain various renewal options, 
as disclosed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Relationship with Universal Health Realty Income Trust and Other Related Party 
Transactions. We also lease two free-standing emergency departments and space in certain medical office buildings which are owned by the Trust.  In 
addition, we lease the real property of certain other facilities from non-related parties as indicated in Item 2. Properties, as included herein.
The following represents the scheduled maturities of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2024:
 
  Payments Due by Period (dollars in thousands)  
     Less than   2-3   4-5   After  
  Total   1 year   years   years   5 years  
Long-term debt obligations (a)  $4,524,366  $ 40,059  $ 811,903  $1,728,010  $1,944,394 
 Estimated future interest payments on debt
   outstanding as of December 31, 2024 (b)   1,075,408   179,726   344,051   311,132   240,499 
Construction commitments (c)   31,568   31,568   0   0   0 
Purchase and other obligations (d)   435,845   95,840   162,684   95,553   81,768 
Operating leases (e)   918,880   88,488   141,183   90,757   598,452 
Estimated future payments for defined benefit
   pension plan, and other retirement plan (f)   159,299   22,253   14,659   14,656   107,731 
Health and dental unpaid claims (g)   117,829   117,829   0   0   0 
Total contractual cash obligations  $7,263,195  $ 575,763  $1,474,480  $2,240,108  $2,972,844 
 
(a) Reflects debt outstanding, after unamortized financing costs, as of December 31, 2024 as discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
(b) Assumes that all debt outstanding as of December 31, 2024, including borrowings under our Credit Agreement, remain outstanding until the final 
maturity of the debt agreements at the same interest rates (some of which are floating) which were in effect as of December 31, 2024. We have the 
right to repay borrowings upon short notice and without penalty, pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement. 
(c) Our share of the estimated construction cost of two behavioral health care facilities scheduled to be completed in 2025 that, subject to approval of 
certain regulatory conditions, we are required to build pursuant to joint-venture agreements with third parties. In addition, we had various other 
projects under construction as of December 31, 2024. Because we can terminate substantially all of the construction contracts related to the various 
other projects at any time without paying a termination fee, these costs are excluded from the table above.    
(d) Consists of: (i) $183 million related to the ongoing operation of an electronic health records application and purchase and implementation of a 
revenue cycle and other applications for our facilities; (ii) $85 million related to the development, implementation and operation of an enterprise 
resource planning application; (iii) $61 million in healthcare infrastructure in Washington D.C. in connection with various agreements with the 
District of Columbia, as discussed below; (iv) $52 million related to long-term contracts with third-parties consisting primarily of certain revenue 
cycle data processing services for our acute care facilities; (v) $43 million for administrative software applications, and; (vi) $12 million for other 
software applications. 
(e) Reflects our future minimum operating lease payment obligations related to our operating lease agreements outstanding as of December 31, 2024 as 
discussed in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Some of the lease agreements provide us with the option to renew the lease and our 
future lease obligations would change if we exercised these renewal options. In connection with these operating lease commitments, our 
consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2024 includes right of use assets amounting to $419 million and aggregate operating lease liabilities 
of $451 million ($75 million included in current liabilities and $376 million included in noncurrent liabilities).  

 
75(f) Consists of $133 million of estimated future payments related to our non-contributory, defined benefit pension plan (estimated through 2080), as 
disclosed in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and $26 million of estimated future payments related to other retirement plan 
liabilities ($23 million of liabilities recorded in other non-current liabilities as of December 31, 2024 in connection with these retirement plans).
(g) Consists of accrued and unpaid estimated claims expense incurred in connection with our commercial health insurers and self-insured employee 
benefit plans.
As of December 31, 2024, the total net accrual for our self-insured professional and general liability claims was $487 million, of which $85 million 
is included in other current liabilities and $402 million is included in other non-current liabilities. We exclude the $487 million for professional and general 
liability claims from the contractual obligations table because there are no significant contractual obligations associated with these liabilities and because of 
the uncertainty of the dollar amounts to be ultimately paid as well as the timing of such payments. Please see Self-Insured/Other Insurance Risks above for 
additional disclosure related to our professional and general liability claims and reserves.
During 2020, we entered into various agreements with the District of Columbia (the “District”) related to the development, leasing and operation of 
an acute care hospital (that is expected to be completed and opened in the Spring of 2025) and certain other facilities/structures on land owned by the 
District (“District Facilities”).  The agreements contemplate that we will serve as manager for development and construction of the District Facilities on 
behalf of the District, with a projected aggregate cost of approximately $439 million, approximately $344 million of which was incurred as of December 
31, 2024, which is being entirely funded by the District. Upon completion of the District Facilities, we will lease the District Facilities for a nominal rental 
amount for a period of 75 years and are obligated to operate the District Facilities during the lease term. We have certain lease termination rights in 
connection with the District Facilities beginning on the tenth anniversary of the lease commencement date for various and decreasing amounts as provided 
for in the agreements. Additionally, any time after the 10th anniversary of the lease term, we have a right to purchase the District Facilities for a price equal 
to the greater of fair market value of the District Facilities or the amount necessary to defease the bonds issued by the District to fund the construction of 
the District Facilities. The lease agreement also entitles the District to participation rent should certain specified earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation 
and amortization thresholds be achieved by the acute care hospital. Additionally, we have committed to expend no less than $75 million, over a projected 
12-year period, in healthcare infrastructure including expenditures related to the District Facilities as well as other healthcare related expenditures in certain 
specified areas of Washington, D.C. This financial commitment is included in “Purchase and other obligations” as reflected on the contractual obligations 
table above.  Pursuant to the agreements, the District is entitled to certain termination fees and other amounts as specified in the agreements in the event 
we, within certain specified periods of time, cease to operate the acute care hospital or there is a transfer of control of us or our subsidiary operating the 
hospital. 
ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
We manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. To manage this 
risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of 
fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. We account for our derivative and hedging activities using the Financial 
Accounting Standard Board’s guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to 
be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. For derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging 
instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction.
Derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of 
forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the 
balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) within 
shareholders’ equity. Amounts are reclassified from AOCI to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. From 
time to time, we use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. Such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes 
in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. 
For hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge’s inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is 
performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in 
cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future.
The fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the 
counterparties. When applicable, we assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. Although we do not anticipate nonperformance 
by our counterparties to interest rate swap agreements, the counterparties expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. We do not hold or issue 
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

 
76When applicable, we measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. The fair value of our interest rate swaps is based on quotes 
from our counterparties.  We consider those inputs to be “level 2” in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in 
connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities.   
The table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of December 31, 
2024. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates.
Maturity Date, Fiscal Year Ending December 31
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
  2025   2026   2027   2028   2029   Thereafter   Total  
Long-term debt:                      
Fixed rate:                      
Debt  $ 10,059   $ 708,317   $ 11,501   $ 12,402   $ 508,665   $ 1,931,356   $ 3,182,300  
Average interest rates   3.2%  3.2%  3.7%  3.6%  3.6%  3.8%  3.5%
Variable rate:                      
Debt  $ 30,000   $ 30,000    60,000    60,000    1,142,241    0  $ 1,322,241  
Average interest rates   5.8%  5.8%  5.8%  5.8%  5.8%  0.0%  5.8%
Interest rate swaps:                      
Notional amount                        
Average interest rates                      
 
As calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2024 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in 
interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $13 million. 
ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Our Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Income, Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statements of 
Cash Flows and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, together with the reports of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered 
public accounting firm, are included elsewhere herein. Reference is made to the “Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule.”
ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None.
ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures.
As of December 31, 2024, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and 
Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), we performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) or 
Rule 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that our disclosure 
controls and procedures are effective to ensure that material information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported by management on a timely basis 
in order to comply with our disclosure obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the SEC rules thereunder.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting or in other factors during the fourth quarter of 2024 that have materially 
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system of internal control over our financial reporting. In order to evaluate 
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management has conducted an 
assessment, including testing, using the criteria on Internal Control—Integrated Framework (2013), issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations 
of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Our system of internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally 
accepted accounting principles. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because 
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

 
77Based on its assessment, management has concluded that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, 
based on criteria in Internal Control—Integrated Framework (2013), issued by the COSO. The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over 
financial reporting as of December 31, 2024 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm as stated 
in its report which appears herein.
ITEM 9B Other Information
None of the Company’s directors or officers adopted, modified or terminated a Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement or a non-Rule 10b5-1 trading 
arrangement during the Company’s quarter ended December 31, 2024, as such terms are defined under Item 408(a) of Regulation S-K.
ITEM 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. Other Information
Not applicable.
 
 

 
78PART III
ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the captions “Election of Directors”, “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership 
Reporting Compliance” and “Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days 
after December 31, 2024. See also “Executive Officers of the Registrant” appearing in Item 1 hereof.
ITEM 11. Executive Compensation
There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the caption “Executive Compensation” in our Proxy Statement to be filed 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2024.
ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and 
Management” and “Executive Compensation” in our Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after 
December 31, 2024.
ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and 
“Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2024.
ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services.
There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the caption “Relationship with Independent Auditors” in our Proxy 
Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2024.
 

 
79PART IV
ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(a) Documents filed as part of this report:
(1) Financial Statements:
See “Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule.”
(2) Financial Statement Schedules:
See “Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule.”
(3) Exhibits:
No.  Description
3.1  Registrant’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and Amendments thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997, are incorporated herein by reference.
   
3.2  Amended and Restated Bylaws of Registrant, previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 
21, 2022, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
3.3  Amendment to the Registrant’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on 
Form 8-K dated July 3, 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.
   
4.1  Description of Securities of the Registrant previously filed as Exhibit 4.5 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2019, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
4.2  Indenture, dated as of September 21, 2020, by and among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, MUFG Union Bank, N.A., 
as trustee, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as collateral agent., previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-
K dated September 21, 2020, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
4.3  Additional Authorized Representative Joinder Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2020, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors 
party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as collateral agent, the Authorized Representatives specified therein and MUFG Union Bank, 
N.A., as trustee, as an Additional Authorized Representative, previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated September 21, 2020, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
4.4  Indenture, dated as of August 24, 2021, by and among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, U.S. Bank National 
Association, as Trustee, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as collateral agent, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current 
Report on Form 8-K dated August 24, 2021, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
4.5  Additional Authorized Representative Joinder Agreement, dated as of August 24, 2021, among U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee 
and Additional Authorized Representative, the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as 
collateral agent and administrative agent, previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 24, 
2021, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
4.6  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 24, 2021, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, U.S. Bank National 
Association (as successor to MUFG Union Bank, N.A.), as trustee, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as collateral agent, to the indenture, 
dated as of September 21, 2020, governing the Existing 2030 Notes, previously filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Current Report on 
Form 8-K dated August 24, 2021, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
4.7  Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June  23, 2022, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, U.S. Bank Trust 
Company and National Association (as successor to U.S. Bank National Association), as trustee to the indenture, dated as of September 21, 
2020, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 27, 2022, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
4.8  First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 23, 2022, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, and U.S. Bank Trust 
Company, National Association (as successor to U.S. Bank National Association), as trustee, to the indenture, dated as of August 24, 2021, 
previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 27, 2022, is incorporated herein by reference.
   

 
80No.  Description
4.9  Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 4, 2022, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and U.S. Bank 
Trust Company, National Association (as successor to U.S. Bank National Association), as trustee, to the indenture, dated as of September 
21, 2020, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q dated November 8, 2022, is incorporated herein 
by reference.
   
4.10  Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 4, 2022, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and U.S. Bank 
Trust Company, National Association (as successor to U.S. Bank National Association), as trustee, to the indenture, dated as of August 24, 
2021, previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q dated November 8, 2022, is incorporated herein by 
reference.
   
4.11  Indenture, dated as of September 26, 2024, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, U.S. Bank Trust Company, 
National Association, as trustee, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as collateral agent, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s 
Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 1, 2024, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
4.12  First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 26, 2024, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, U.S. Bank 
Trust Company, National Association, as trustee, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as collateral agent, to the indenture, dated as of 
September 26, 2024, governing the Issuer’s 4.625% Senior Secured Notes due 2029 and the Issuer’s 5.050% Senior Secured Notes due 2034, 
previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 1, 2024, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
4.13  Additional Authorized Representative Joinder Agreement, dated as of September 26, 2024, among U.S. Bank Trust Company, National 
Association, as trustee and additional authorized representative for the holders of the Notes, the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors party 
thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as collateral agent and administrative agent, previously filed as Exhibit 4.5 to the Company’s 
Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 1, 2024, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.1  Agreement, dated December 7, 2023, to renew Advisory Agreement dated as of December 24, 1986, and amended and restated effective as 
of January 1, 2019 between Universal Health Realty Income Trust and UHS of Delaware, Inc.
   
10.2  Agreement, dated as of December 4, 2019, to renew Advisory Agreement, dated as of December 24, 1986, and amended and restated 
effective as of January 1, 2019 between Universal Health Realty Income Trust and UHS of Delaware, Inc., previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to 
the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.3  Form of Leases, including Form of Master Lease Document for Leases, between certain subsidiaries of the Company and Universal Health 
Realty Income Trust, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Amendment No. 3 of the Registration Statement on Form S-11 and Form S-2 of Registrant and 
Universal Health Realty Income Trust (Registration No. 33-7872), is incorporated herein by reference (P).
   
10.4  Corporate Guaranty of Obligations of Subsidiaries Pursuant to Leases and Contract of Acquisition, dated December 24, 1986, issued by the 
Company in favor of Universal Health Realty Income Trust, previously filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated December 24, 1986, is incorporated herein by reference (P).
   
10.5  Universal Health Services, Inc. Executive Retirement Income Plan dated January 1, 1993, previously filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.6  Universal Health Services, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Income Plan effective as of June 1, 2018, dated as of June 18, 2018, 
previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019, is 
incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.7  Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of February 6, 1996, among Amarillo Hospital District, UHS of Amarillo, Inc. and Universal Health 
Services, Inc., previously filed as Exhibit 10.28 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, is 
incorporated herein by reference (P).
   
10.8*  Amended and Restated Universal Health Services, Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan dated as of January 1, 2002, previously 
filed as Exhibit 10.29 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by 
reference.
   

 
81No.  Description
10.9  Amendment No. 1 to the Master Lease Document, between certain subsidiaries of Universal Health Services, Inc. and Universal Health 
Realty Income Trust, dated April 24, 2006, previously filed as Exhibit 10.29 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
ended December 31, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.10  Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, by and among Universal Health Services, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the 
various financial institutions as are or may become parties thereto, as Lenders, SunTrust Bank, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Plc, Bank of 
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company and Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, as co-documentation agents, Deutsche Bank 
Securities Inc. and Bank of America N.A. as co-syndication agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent for the 
Lenders and as collateral agent for the secured parties, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
November 17, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.11  First Amendment, dated as of March 15, 2011, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, by and among Universal Health 
Services, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the various financial institutions as are or may become parties thereto, as Lenders, certain 
banks as co-documentation agents, and as co-syndication agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders 
and as collateral agent for the secured parties, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 
15, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.12  Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010 and amended and restated as of September 21, 2012, by and among Universal Health 
Services, Inc. (the borrower), the several lenders from time to time parties thereto, Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Mizuho 
Corporate Bank LTD., Royal Bank of Canada and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (as co-documentation agents), Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, Bank of America N.A. and SunTrust Bank (as co-syndication agents), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (as 
administrative agent), previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 26, 2012, is 
incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.13  Second Amendment, dated as of September 21, 2012, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010 (as amended from time to 
time), among Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time 
parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and the other agents party thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to 
the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 26, 2012, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.14  Third Amendment, dated as of May 16, 2013, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, as amended from time to time, 
among Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties 
thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and the other agents party thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the 
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 17, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.15  Fourth Amendment, dated as of August 7, 2014, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, as previously amended from time 
to time, by and among Universal Health Services, Inc., the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and the other agents party thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s 
Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 12, 2014, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
10.16  Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010 and amended and restated as of August 7, 2014, by and among Universal Health Services, 
Inc., the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent 
and the other agents party thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 12, 2014, is 
incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.17  Fifth Amendment, dated as of November 7, 2016,  to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, as amended on March 15, 2011, 
September 21, 2012, May 16, 2013 and August 7, 2014, among the Company, as borrower, the several banks and other financial institutions 
from time to time parties thereto, as lenders, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other agents party thereto, 
previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 8, 2016, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
10.18  Sixth Amendment, dated as of October 23, 2018, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, as amended on March 15, 2011, 
September 21, 2012, May 16, 2013, August 7, 2014 and June 7, 2016, among the Company, as borrower, the several banks and other 
financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, as lenders, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other agents 
party thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 24, 2018, is incorporated herein 
by reference.

 
82No.  Description
   
10.19  Increased Facility Activation Notice – Incremental Term Loans, dated as of  October 31, 2018, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of 
November 15, 2010, as amended on March 15, 2011, September 21, 2012, May 16, 2013, August 7, 2014, June 7, 2016 and October 23, 
2018, among the Company, as borrower, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, as lenders, 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other agents party thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s 
Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2018, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.20  Seventh Amendment, dated as of August 24, 2021, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, as amended on March 15, 
2011, September 21, 2012, May 16, 2013, August 7, 2014,  June 7, 2016 and October 23, 2018, among the Company, as borrower, the 
several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, as lenders, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative 
agent, and the other agents party thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 24, 
2021, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.21  Eighth Amendment, dated as of September 10, 2021, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, as amended on March 15, 
2011, September 21, 2012, May 16, 2013, August 7, 2014,  June 7, 2016, October 23, 2018 and August 24, 2021, among the Company, as 
borrower, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, as lenders, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as 
administrative agent, and the other agents party thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
dated November 8, 2021, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.22  Ninth Amendment and Increased Facility Activation Notice dated as of June 23, 2022, to Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010 
and as amended and restated as of March 15, 2011, September 21, 2012, May 16, 2013, August 7, 2014, June 7, 2016, October 23, 2018, 
August 24, 2021 and September 10, 2021, among the Company, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent  and other financial 
institutions or entities from time to time parties thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
June 27, 2022, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.23*  Form of Supplemental Life Insurance Plan and Agreement Part A: Alan B. Miller 1998 Dual Life Insurance Trust (effective December 9, 
2010, by and between Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and Anthony Pantaleoni as Trustee), 
previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2010, is incorporated herein by 
reference.
   
10.24*  Form of Supplemental Life Insurance Plan and Agreement Part B: Alan B. Miller 2002 Trust (effective December 9, 2010, by and between 
Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and Anthony Pantaleoni as Trustee), previously filed as Exhibit 
10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.25*  Universal Health Services, Inc. Termination, Assignment and Release Agreement (effective December 9, 2010, by and between Universal 
Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), Anthony Pantaleoni as Trustee of the Alan B. Miller 1998 Dual Life 
Insurance Trust, and Alan B. Miller, Executive), previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
December 10, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.26*  Universal Health Services, Inc. Termination, Assignment and Release Agreement (effective December 9, 2010, by and between Universal 
Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), Anthony Pantaleoni as Trustee of the Alan B. Miller 2002 Trust, and Alan 
B. Miller, Executive), previously filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2010, is 
incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.27  Collateral Agreement, dated as of August 7, 2014, among Universal Health Services, Inc., the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, MUFG 
Union Bank, N.A., as 2014 Trustee, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as 2006 Trustee, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, 
N.A., as collateral agent, previously filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 12, 2014, is 
incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.28*  Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under the Universal Health Services, Inc. 2020 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan, previously filed 
as Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 7, 2020, is incorporated herein by reference.
   

 
83No.  Description
10.29*  Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Universal Health Services, Inc. 2020 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan, previously 
filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 7, 2020, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.30*  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Universal Health Services, Inc. 2020 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan, 
previously filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 7, 2020, is incorporated herein by 
reference.
   
10.31  Settlement Agreement among: (i) the United States of America, acting through the United States Department of Justice and on behalf of the 
Office of Inspector General (OIG-HHS) of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS); the Defense Health Agency (DHA), acting 
on behalf of the TRICARE Program; the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), which administers the Federal Employees Health Benefits 
Program (FEHBP); and the United States Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) (collectively, the United States); (ii) Universal Health 
Services, Inc. (“UHS, Inc.”) and UHS of Delaware, Inc. (“UHS of Delaware, Inc.”), acting on behalf of the entities listed on Exhibits A and 
B, (collectively the “Defendants” or “UHS”); and (iii) various individuals (collectively, the “Relators”), previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to 
the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 10, 2020, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.32  Form of Settlement Agreement between various states and Universal Health Services, Inc. and UHS of Delaware, Inc., acting on behalf of 
the entities listed on Exhibits A and B, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 10, 2020, is 
incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.33  Corporate Integrity Agreement between the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and Universal 
Health Services, Inc. and UHS of Delaware, Inc., previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 
10, 2020, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.34*  Employment Agreement between Universal Health Services, Inc. and Marc D. Miller dated as of December 23, 2020, previously filed as 
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 23, 2020, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.35*  Amendment, dated as of March 23, 2022, to Employment Agreement, dated as of December 23, 2020, between Universal Health Services, 
Inc. and Marc D. Miller, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 23, 2022, is 
incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.36*  Employment Agreement between Universal Health Services, Inc. and Alan B. Miller dated as of December 23, 2020, previously filed as 
Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 23, 2020, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
10.37*  Amendment, dated as of March 23, 2022, to Employment Agreement, dated as of December 23, 2020, between Universal Health Services, 
Inc. and Alan B. Miller, previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 23, 2022, is 
incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.38  Master Lease Document between certain subsidiaries of Universal Health Services, Inc. and Universal Health Realty Income Trust, dated 
December 31, 2021 previously filed as Exhibit 10.54 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated February 24, 2022, is 
incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.39*  Universal Health Services, Inc. 2022 Executive Incentive Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-
K dated March 23, 2022, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.40*  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Universal Health Services, Inc. 2020 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan, 
previously filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 8, 2022, is incorporated herein by 
reference.
   
10.41*  Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement for Named Executive Officers with Employment Agreements, , previously filed as Exhibit 
10.5 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 6, 2022, is incorporated herein by reference.
   

 
84No.  Description
10.42*  Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement for Named Executive Officers without Employment Agreements, previously filed as 
Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 6, 2022, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.43*  Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement for Directors, previously filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on 
Form 10-Q filed on May 6, 2022, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.44*  Separation Agreement and General Release by and between UHS of Delaware, Inc. and Marvin Pember effective as of December 31, 2022, 
previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K/A dated December 7, 2022, is incorporated herein by 
reference.
   
10.45*  Employment Agreement between Universal Health Services, Inc. and Edward Sim dated October 18, 2022 previously filed as Exhibit 10.66 
to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated February 27, 2023, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.46*  Universal Health Services, Inc. Amended and Restated 2020 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan, as amended by the Amendment thereto, 
previously filed as Exhibit A to the Company’s Proxy Statement filed on April 4, 2024, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.47*  Universal Health Services, Inc. Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, previously filed as Exhibit B to the Company’s 
Proxy Statement filed on April 4, 2024, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
10.48  Tenth Amendment, dated as of September 26, 2024, to Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010 and as amended and restated as of 
September 21, 2012, August 7, 2014, October 23, 2018, August 21, 2021, September 10, 2021, June 23, 2022 and September 26, 2024, 
among the Company, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and other financial institutions or entities from time to time 
parties thereto, including the amendment and restatement thereof, effective as of September 26, 2024, attached as Exhibit A thereto and 
referred to herein as the Senior Secured Credit Facility, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
October 1, 2024, is incorporated herein by reference.
   
11  Statement regarding computation of per share earnings is set forth in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
   
19*  Universal Health Services, Inc. Inside Information and Trading of Company Stock Policy.
   
21  Subsidiaries of Registrant.
   
22.1  List of Guarantor Subsidiaries and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities and Affiliates Whose Securities Collateralize Securities of the Registrant.
   
23.1  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm-PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
   
31.1  Certification from the Company’s Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
   
31.2  Certification from the Company’s Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
   
32.1  Certification from the Company’s Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
   
32.2  Certification from the Company’s Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
   
97  Universal Health Services, Inc. Clawback Policy.
   
101.INS  Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File as its XBRL tags are embedded within 
the Inline XBRL document
   

 
85No.  Description
101.SCH  Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema With Embedded Linkbase Documents
   
104  Cover page formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
Exhibits, other than those incorporated by reference, have been included in copies of this Annual Report filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. Stockholders of the Company will be provided with copies of those exhibits upon written request to the Company.
 
ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary
None.
 
 

 
86SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
   
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC.
  
By:  /s/ MARC D. MILLER 
 
 Marc D. Miller
Chief Executive Officer
February 26, 2025
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf 
of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
     
 Signat
ures    Title    Dat
e  
   
/s/ ALAN B. MILLER
Alan B. Miller  Executive Chairman of the Board
 February 26, 
2025
   
/s/ MARC D. MILLER
Marc D. Miller
 Director, President and Chief 
Executive Officer (Principal Executive 
Officer)  February 26, 
2025
   
/s/ NINA CHEN-LANGENMAYR
 Director
 February 26, 
2025
Nina Chen-Langenmayr    
     
/s/ EILEEN C. MCDONNELL
Eileen C. McDonnell  Director
 February 26, 
2025
   
/s/ WARREN J. NIMETZ
Warren J. Nimetz  Director
 February 26, 
2025
   
/s/ MARIA SINGER
Maria Singer  Director
 February 26, 
2025
   
/s/ ELLIOTT J. SUSSMAN M.D.
Elliot J. Sussman M.D.  Director
 February 26, 
2025
   
/s/ STEVE FILTON
Steve Filton
 Executive Vice President, Chief 
Financial Officer and Secretary
(Principal Financial and Accounting 
Officer)  February 26, 
2025
 
 

 
87UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC.
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
Consolidated Financial Statements:  
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 238) 88
Consolidated Statements of Income for December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 90
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 91
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2024 and 2023 92
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 93
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 96
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 97
Supplemental Financial Statement Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts as of and for December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022 130
 

 
88Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Universal Health Services, Inc. 
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Universal Health Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 
2024 and 2023, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of changes in equity and of cash flows for each of the three 
years in the period ended December 31, 2024, including the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index (collectively 
referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 
2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of 
December 31, 2024 and 2023, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2024 in 
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material 
respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated 
Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.
Basis for Opinions
The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, 
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial 
Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's 
internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the
applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective 
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial 
statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, 
evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used 
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal 
control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing 
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting 
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control 
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial 
statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of 
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

 
89Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was 
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated 
financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not 
alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, 
providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Valuation of accounts receivable
As described in Notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company reports net patient service revenue at the estimated net realizable 
amounts from patients and third-party payers and others for services rendered. The Company has agreements with third-party payers that provide for 
payments to the Company at amounts different from established rates. Payment arrangements include rates per discharge, reimbursed costs, discounted 
charges and per diem payments. Estimates of contractual allowances, which represent explicit price concessions, under managed care plans are based upon 
the payment terms specified in the related contractual agreements. Management estimates Medicare and Medicaid revenues using the latest available 
financial information, patient utilization data, government provided data and in accordance with applicable Medicare and Medicaid payment rules and 
regulations. Management monitors the historical collection rates, as well as changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations and contract terms, to assure 
that provisions are made using the most accurate information available. In addition to explicit price concessions, management estimates revenue 
adjustments for implicit price concessions based on general factors such as payer mix, the aging of the receivables and historical collection experience. 
Management routinely reviews accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions which might ultimately affect 
the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to the allowances as warranted. As of December 31, 2024, the net accounts receivable 
balance was $2.2 billion.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the valuation of accounts receivable is a critical audit matter are 
the significant judgment by management in estimating net accounts receivable, specifically as it relates to developing the estimate for explicit and implicit 
price concessions, which in turn led to significant auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence 
obtained related to the estimation of price concessions.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to the valuation of accounts receivable, including controls over 
management’s valuation approach, assumptions and data used to estimate the explicit and implicit price concessions. These procedures also included, 
among others, (i) testing management’s process for developing the estimate for price concessions, as well as the relevance of the historical billing and 
collection data as an input to the valuation approach; (ii) testing the accuracy of a sample of revenue transactions and a sample of cash collections from the 
historical billing data and historical collection data used in management’s estimation of price concessions; (iii) evaluating the historical accuracy of 
management’s process for developing the estimate of the amount which will ultimately be collected by comparing actual cash collections to the previously 
recorded net accounts receivable balance; and (iv) developing an independent expectation of the net accounts receivable balance. Developing an 
independent expectation involved calculating the percentage of cash collections as compared to the recorded net accounts receivable balance as of the end 
of the prior year, applying those calculated percentages to the recorded accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2024, and comparing the calculated 
balance to management’s estimate of the net accounts receivable balance.
 
 
 /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
February 26, 2025
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2007. 
 
 

 
90UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
  Year Ended December 31,  
  2024   2023   2022  
  (in thousands, except per share data)  
Net revenues  $ 15,827,935  $ 14,281,976  $ 13,399,370 
Operating charges:          
Salaries, wages and benefits   7,518,687   7,107,484   6,762,256 
Other operating expenses   4,308,384   3,757,216   3,445,733 
Supplies expense   1,587,786   1,532,828   1,474,339 
Depreciation and amortization   584,831   568,041   581,861 
Lease and rental expense   146,433   141,026   131,626 
   14,146,121   13,106,595   12,395,815 
Income from operations   1,681,814   1,175,381   1,003,555 
Interest expense, net   186,109   206,674   126,889 
Other (income) expense, net   (2,231)  28,281   10,406 
Income before income taxes   1,497,936   940,426   866,260 
Provision for income taxes   334,827   221,119   209,278 
Net income   1,163,109   719,307   656,982 
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests   21,012   1,512   (18,627)
Net income attributable to UHS  $ 1,142,097  $ 717,795  $ 675,609 
Basic earnings per share attributable to UHS  $ 17.16  $ 10.35  $ 9.23 
Diluted earnings per share attributable to UHS  $ 16.82  $ 10.23  $ 9.14 
Weighted average number of common shares—basic   66,554   69,321   73,118 
Add:  Other share equivalents   1,342   804   714 
Weighted average number of common shares and equivalents—diluted   67,896   70,125   73,832 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 

 
91UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
  Year Ended December 31,  
  2024   2023   2022  
  (Dollar amounts in thousands)  
Net income  $ 1,163,109  $ 719,307  $ 656,982 
Other comprehensive income (loss):          
Minimum pension liability   2,416   4,166   (2,869)
Foreign currency translation adjustment   (3,237)  15,271   (37,310)
Other   17   0   0 
Other comprehensive income before tax   (804)  19,437   (40,179)
Income tax expense related to items of other
   comprehensive income   1,284   480   (220)
Total other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax   (2,088)  18,957   (39,959)
Comprehensive income   1,161,021   738,264   617,023 
Less: Comprehensive loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling
   interests   21,012   1,512   (18,627)
Comprehensive income attributable to UHS  $ 1,140,009  $ 736,752  $ 635,650 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 

 
92UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
  December 31,  
  2024   2023  
  (Dollar amounts in thousands)  
Assets       
Current assets:       
Cash and cash equivalents  $ 125,983  $ 119,439 
Accounts receivable, net   2,177,751   2,238,265 
Supplies   220,940   216,988 
Other current assets   291,614   236,658 
Total current assets   2,816,288   2,811,350 
Property and Equipment       
Land   745,706   737,226 
Buildings and improvements   7,671,206   7,139,980 
Equipment   3,260,350   3,066,339 
Property under finance lease   125,018   101,318 
   11,802,280   11,044,863 
Accumulated depreciation   (6,071,058)  (5,652,518)
   5,731,222   5,392,345 
Construction-in-progress   841,003   732,184 
   6,572,225   6,124,529 
Other assets:       
Goodwill   3,932,879   3,932,407 
Deferred income taxes   118,449   85,626 
Right of use assets-operating leases   418,719   433,962 
Deferred charges   9,404   6,974 
Other   601,785   572,754 
   5,081,236   5,031,723 
Total Assets  $ 14,469,749  $ 13,967,602 
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity       
Current liabilities:       
Current maturities of long-term debt  $ 40,059  $ 126,686 
Accounts payable   632,001   613,974 
Accrued liabilities       
Compensation and related benefits   622,625   549,470 
Interest   30,250   17,436 
Taxes other than income   161,683   154,186 
Operating lease liabilities   74,649   71,600 
Deferred grant revenue   0   5,375 
Other   634,920   472,574 
Current federal and state income taxes   14,219   2,046 
Total current liabilities   2,210,406   2,013,347 
       
Other noncurrent liabilities   655,806   584,007 
Operating lease liabilities noncurrent   376,239   382,559 
Long-term debt   4,464,482   4,785,783 
Commitments and contingencies (Note 8)       
Redeemable noncontrolling interest   13,293   5,191 
Equity:       
Class A Common Stock, voting, $.01 par value; authorized 12,000,000 shares: issued
   and outstanding 6,576,475 shares in 2024 and 6,577,100 shares in 2023   66   66 
Class B Common Stock, limited voting, $.01 par value; authorized 150,000,000
   shares: issued and outstanding 57,726,557 shares in 2024 and 59,930,083 shares in 2023   577   599 
Class C Common Stock, voting, $.01 par value; authorized 1,200,000 shares: issued
   and outstanding 661,688 shares in 2023 and 661,688 shares in 2022   7   7 
Class D Common Stock, limited voting, $.01 par value; authorized 5,000,000 shares:
   issued and outstanding 12,614 shares in 2024 and 12,962 shares in 2023   0   0 
Cumulative dividends   (713,705)  (659,890)
Retained earnings   7,372,061   6,798,930 
Accumulated other comprehensive income   7,201   9,289 
Universal Health Services, Inc. common stockholders’ equity   6,666,207   6,149,001 
Noncontrolling interest   83,316   47,714 
Total Equity   6,749,523   6,196,715 
Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity  $ 14,469,749  $ 13,967,602 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

 
93UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2024
(in thousands)
 
                       Accumulate
d   UHS        
  Redeemabl
e                     Other   Common        
  Noncontroll
ing   Class A   Class B   Class C   Class D   Cumulative   Retained   Comprehen
sive   Stockholder
s'   Noncontrolli
ng     
  Interest   Common   Common   Common   Common   Dividends   Earnings   Income  
(Loss)   Equity   Interest   Total  
Balance, January 1, 2024  $ 5,191   $ 66  $ 599  $ 7  $ —  $(659,890 ) $6,798,930   $ 9,289   $6,149,001   $ 47,714   $ 6,196,715  
Common Stock                                  
Issued/(converted) including tax benefits  
from
   exercise of stock options   —   —   12   —   —   —   15,226    —   15,238    —   15,238  
Repurchased   —   —   (34)  —   —   —   (674,946 )  —   (674,980 )  —   (674,980 )
Restricted share-based compensation  
expense   —   —   —   —   —   —   43,626    —   43,626    —   43,626  
Dividends paid   —   —   —   —   —   (53,815 )  —   —   (53,815 )  —   (53,815 )
Stock option expense   —   —   —   —   —   —   54,289    —   54,289    —   54,289  
Change in redemption amount of redeemable  
noncontrolling interest   7,144    —   —   —   —   —   (7,144 )  —   (7,144 )  —   (7,144 )
Distributions to noncontrolling interests   (650)  —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   (5,860 )  (5,860 )
Purchase of ownership interests by minority  
members   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   22,056    22,056  
Comprehensive income:                                  
Net income to UHS / noncontrolling  
interests   1,608    —   —   —   —   —   1,142,097    —   1,142,097    19,406    1,161,503  
Other   —   —   —   —   —   —   (17)  17   —   —   — 
Foreign currency translation adjustments  
(net of income tax effect of $ 704)   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   (3,941 )  (3,941 )  —   (3,941 )
Minimum pension liability (net of income  
tax effect of $ 580)   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   1,836    1,836    —   1,836  
Subtotal - comprehensive income   1,608    —   —   —   —   —   1,142,080    (2,088 )  1,139,992    19,406    1,159,398  
Balance, December 31, 2024  $ 13,293   $ 66  $ 577  $ 7  $ —  $(713,705 ) $7,372,061   $ 7,201   $6,666,207   $ 83,316   $ 6,749,523  
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

 
94UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY—(Continued)
FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023
(in thousands)
 
                       Accumulate
d   UHS        
  Redeemabl
e                     Other   Common        
  Noncontroll
ing   Class A   Class B   Class C   Class D   Cumulative   Retained   Comprehen
sive   Stockholder
s'   Noncontrolli
ng     
  Interest   Common   Common   Common   Common   Dividends   Earnings   Income  
(Loss)   Equity   Interest   Total  
Balance, January 1, 2023  $ 4,695   $ 66  $ 637  $ 7  $ —  $(604,127 ) $6,533,667   $ (9,668 ) $5,920,582   $ 44,768   $ 5,965,350  
Common Stock                                  
Issued/(converted) including tax benefits  
from
   exercise of stock options   —   —   3   —   —   —   13,760    —   13,763    —   13,763  
Repurchased   —   —   (41)  —   —   —   (552,567 )  —   (552,608 )  —   (552,608 )
Restricted share-based compensation  
expense   —   —   —   —   —   —   22,032    —   22,032    —   22,032  
Dividends paid   —   —   —   —   —   (55,763 )  —   —   (55,763 )  —   (55,763 )
Stock option expense   —   —   —   —   —   —   64,243    —   64,243    —   64,243  
Distributions to noncontrolling interests   (1,050 )  —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   (5,780 )  (5,780 )
Purchase of ownership interests by minority  
members   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   8,760    8,760  
Comprehensive income:                                  
Net income to UHS / noncontrolling  
interests   1,546    —   —   —   —   —   717,795    —   717,795    (34)  717,761  
Foreign currency translation adjustments  
(net of income tax effect of $ 520)   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   15,791    15,791    —   15,791  
Minimum pension liability (net of income  
tax effect of $ 1,000 )   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   3,166    3,166    —   3,166  
Subtotal - comprehensive income   1,546    —   —   —   —   —   717,795    18,957    736,752    (34)  736,718  
Balance, December 31, 2023  $ 5,191   $ 66  $ 599  $ 7  $ —  $(659,890 ) $6,798,930   $ 9,289   $6,149,001   $ 47,714   $ 6,196,715  
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
 

 
95UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY—(Continued)
FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022
(in thousands)
 
                       Accumulate
d   UHS        
  Redeemabl
e                     Other   Common        
  Noncontroll
ing   Class A   Class B   Class C   Class D   Cumulative   Retained   Comprehen
sive   Stockholder
s'   Noncontrolli
ng     
  Interest   Common   Common   Common   Common   Dividends   Earnings   Income  
(Loss)   Equity   Interest   Total  
Balance, January 1, 2022  $ 5,119   $ 66  $ 698  $ 7  $ 0  $(545,487 ) $6,604,089   $ 30,291   $6,089,664   $ 103,389   $ 6,193,053  
Common Stock                                  
Issued/(converted) including tax benefits  
from
   exercise of stock options   —   —   11   —   —   —   14,196    —   14,207    —   14,207  
Repurchased   —   —   (72)  —   —   —   (832,846 )  —   (832,918 )  —   (832,918 )
Restricted share-based compensation  
expense   —   —   —   —   —   —   17,649    —   17,649    —   17,649  
Dividends paid   —   —   —   —   —   (58,640 )  —   —   (58,640 )  —   (58,640 )
Stock option expense   —   —   —   —   —   —   66,244    —   66,244    —   66,244  
Acquisition of noncontrolling interest in  
majority owned business   —   —   —   —   —   —   (11,274 )  —   (11,274 )  (37,608 )  (48,882 )
Distributions to noncontrolling interests   (650)  —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   (4,741 )  (4,741 )
Purchase of ownership interests by minority  
members   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   2,581    2,581  
Comprehensive income:                                  
Net income to UHS / noncontrolling  
interests   226   —   —   —   —   —   675,609    —   675,609    (18,853 )  656,756  
Foreign currency translation adjustments  
(net of income tax effect of $ 469)   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   (37,779 )  (37,779 )  —   (37,779 )
Minimum pension liability (net of income  
tax effect of $ 689)   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   (2,180 )  (2,180 )  —   (2,180 )
Subtotal - comprehensive income   226   —   —   —   —   —   675,609    (39,959 )  635,650    (18,853 )  616,797  
Balance, December 31, 2022  $ 4,695   $ 66  $ 637  $ 7  $ —  $(604,127 ) $6,533,667   $ (9,668 ) $5,920,582   $ 44,768   $ 5,965,350  
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
 

 
96UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
  Year Ended December 31,  
  2024   2023   2022  
  (Amounts in thousands)  
Cash Flows from Operating Activities:          
Net income  $ 1,163,109  $ 719,307  $ 656,982 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating
   activities:          
Depreciation & amortization   584,831   568,041   581,861 
(Gain) loss on sales of assets and businesses   (9,920)  (6,250)  584 
Stock-based compensation expense   99,349   87,720   85,378 
Costs related to extinguishment of debt   3,158   0   0 
Provision for asset impairment   0   0   57,550 
Changes in assets & liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions and
   dispositions:          
Accounts receivable   67,355   (182,444)  (258,338)
Accrued interest   12,814   1,193   1,835 
Accrued and deferred income taxes   12,651   (43,450)  (29,510)
Other working capital accounts   61,897   (32,321)  (146,692)
Deferred grant revenue   0   2,978   2,391 
Other assets and deferred charges   (12,163)  48,517   19,918 
Other   21,811   39,133   (8,676)
Accrued insurance expense, net of commercial premiums paid   254,394   183,462   174,723 
Payments made in settlement of self-insurance claims   (192,185)  (118,089)  (141,983)
Net cash provided by operating activities   2,067,101   1,267,797   996,023 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities:          
Property and equipment additions   (943,810)  (743,055)  (734,001)
Acquisition of businesses and property   (18,998)  (3,728)  (20,309)
Inflows (outflows) from foreign exchange contracts that hedge our net U.K. investment  12,860   (40,695)  94,913 
Proceeds received from sales of assets and businesses   38,563   24,187   12,001 
Decrease in capital reserves of commercial insurance subsidiary   276   16   100 
Net cash used in investing activities   (911,109)  (763,275)  (647,296)
Cash Flows from Financing Activities:          
Repayments of long-term debt   (2,640,001)  (85,480)  (89,367)
Additional borrowings   2,210,248   185,100   705,321 
Financing costs   (12,566)  (308)  (3,164)
Repurchase of common shares   (670,754)  (547,363)  (832,918)
Dividends paid   (53,346)  (55,480)  (58,449)
Issuance of common stock   15,070   13,654   14,068 
Profit distributions to noncontrolling interests   (6,508)  (6,830)  (5,391)
Purchase (sale) of ownership interests by (from) minority member   12,980   2,762   (48,500)
Net cash used in financing activities   (1,144,877)  (493,945)  (318,400)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents   (833)  3,056   (8,424)
Increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash   10,282   13,633   21,903 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, beginning of period   214,470   200,837   178,934 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, end of period  $ 224,752  $ 214,470  $ 200,837 
Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information:          
Interest paid  $ 168,274  $ 200,446  $ 120,136 
Income taxes paid, net of refunds  $ 325,430  $ 257,896  $ 250,759 
Noncash purchases of property and equipment  $ 118,109  $ 66,899  $ 72,064 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

 
97NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
1) BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Services provided by our hospitals, all of which are operated by subsidiaries of ours, include general and specialty surgery, internal medicine, 
obstetrics, emergency room care, radiology, oncology, diagnostic care, coronary care, pediatric services, pharmacy services and/or behavioral health 
services. We, through our subsidiaries, provide capital resources as well as a variety of management services to our facilities, including central purchasing, 
information services, finance and control systems, facilities planning, physician recruitment services, administrative personnel management, marketing and 
public relations.
Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our majority-owned subsidiaries and partnerships 
controlled by us or our subsidiaries as the managing general partner. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Revenue Recognition: We report net patient service revenue at the estimated net realizable amounts from patients and third-party payers and others 
for services rendered. We have agreements with third-party payers that provide for payments to us at amounts different from our established rates. Payment 
arrangements include rates per discharge, reimbursed costs, discounted charges and per diem payments. Estimates of contractual allowances under 
managed care plans, which represent explicit price concessions, are based upon the payment terms specified in the related contractual agreements. We 
closely monitor our historical collection rates, as well as changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations and contract terms, to assure that provisions are 
made using the most accurate information available. However, due to the complexities involved in these estimations, actual payments from payers may be 
different from the amounts we estimate and record.
See Note 10-Revenue Recognition, for additional disclosure related to our revenues including a disaggregation of our consolidated net revenues by 
major source for each of the periods presented herein.
We estimate our Medicare and Medicaid revenues using the latest available financial information, patient utilization data, government provided data 
and in accordance with applicable Medicare and Medicaid payment rules and regulations. The laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid 
programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation and as a result, there is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates will change by 
material amounts in the near term. Certain types of payments by the Medicare program and state Medicaid programs (e.g. Medicare Disproportionate Share 
Hospital, Medicare Allowable Bad Debts and Inpatient Psychiatric Services) are subject to retroactive adjustment in future periods as a result of 
administrative review and audit and our estimates may vary from the final settlements. Such amounts are included in accounts receivable, net, on our 
consolidated balance sheets. The funding of both federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs are subject to legislative and regulatory changes. As such, 
we cannot provide any assurance that future legislation and regulations, if enacted, will not have a material impact on our future Medicare and Medicaid 
reimbursements. Adjustments related to the final settlement of these retrospectively determined amounts did not materially impact our results in 2024, 2023 
or 2022. If it were to occur, each 1% adjustment to our estimated net Medicare revenues that are subject to retrospective review and settlement as of 
December 31, 2024, would change our after-tax net income by approximately $2 million.
Charity Care, Uninsured Discounts and Other Adjustments to Revenue: Collection of receivables from third-party payers and patients is our 
primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill 
which is the patient’s responsibility, primarily co-payments and deductibles. We estimate our revenue adjustments for implicit price concessions based on 
general factors such as payer mix, the aging of the receivables and historical collection experience. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in 
conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions which might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments 
to our allowances as warranted. At our acute care hospitals, third party liability accounts are pursued until all payment and adjustments are posted to the 
patient account. For those accounts with a patient balance after third party liability is finalized or accounts for uninsured patients, the patient receives 
statements and collection letters. 
Historically, a significant portion of the patients treated throughout our portfolio of acute care hospitals are uninsured patients which, in part, has 
resulted from patients who are employed but do not have health insurance or who have policies with relatively high deductibles. Patients treated at our 
hospitals for non-elective services, who have gross income of various amounts, dependent upon the state, ranging from 200% to 400% of the federal 
poverty guidelines, are deemed eligible for charity care. The federal poverty guidelines are established by the federal government and are based on income 
and family size. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts that qualify as charity care, the transaction price is fully adjusted and there is no impact in 
our net revenues or in our accounts receivable, net.
A portion of the accounts receivable at our acute care facilities are comprised of Medicaid accounts that are pending approval from third-party 
payers but we also have smaller amounts due from other miscellaneous payers such as county indigent programs in certain states. Our patient registration 
process includes an interview of the patient or the patient’s responsible party at the time of registration. At that time, an insurance eligibility determination 
is made and an insurance plan code is assigned. There are various 

 
98pre-established insurance profiles in our patient accounting system which determine the expected insurance reimbursement for each patient based on the 
insurance plan code assigned and the services rendered. Certain patients may be classified as Medicaid pending at registration based upon a screening 
evaluation if we are unable to definitively determine if they are currently Medicaid eligible. When a patient is registered as Medicaid eligible or Medicaid 
pending, our patient accounting system records net revenues for services provided to that patient based upon the established Medicaid reimbursement rates, 
subject to the ultimate disposition of the patient’s Medicaid eligibility. When the patient’s ultimate eligibility is determined, reclassifications may occur 
which impacts net revenues in future periods. Although the patient’s ultimate eligibility determination may result in adjustments to net revenues, these 
adjustments do not have a material impact on our results of operations in 2024, 2023 or 2022 since our facilities make estimates at each financial reporting 
period to adjust revenue based on historical collections. 
We also provide discounts to uninsured patients (included in “uninsured discounts” amounts below) who do not qualify for Medicaid or charity care. 
Because we do not pursue collection of amounts classified as uninsured discounts, the transaction price is fully adjusted and there is no impact in our net 
revenues or in our net accounts receivable. In implementing the discount policy, we first attempt to qualify uninsured patients for governmental programs, 
charity care or any other discount program. If an uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied. 
Uncompensated care (charity care and uninsured discounts):
The following table shows the amounts recorded at our acute care hospitals for charity care and uninsured discounts, based on charges at established 
rates, for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022:
 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)  
  2024   2023   2022  
  Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount   %  
Charity care  $ 819,681   23% $ 843,449   32% $ 786,962   35%
Uninsured discounts   2,677,026   77%  1,792,493   68%  1,474,933   65%
Total uncompensated care  $3,496,707   100% $2,635,942   100% $2,261,895   100%
 
The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care:
The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care, as reflected below, were based on a calculation which multiplied the percentage of operating 
expenses for our acute care hospitals to gross charges for those hospitals by the above-mentioned total uncompensated care amounts. The percentage of 
cost to gross charges is calculated based on the total operating expenses for our acute care facilities divided by gross patient service revenue for those 
facilities. An increase in the level of uninsured patients to our facilities and the resulting adverse trends in the adjustments to net revenues and 
uncompensated care provided could have a material unfavorable impact on our future operating results.
 
  (amounts in thousands)  
  2024   2023   2022  
Estimated cost of providing charity care  $ 75,227  $ 83,383  $ 85,434 
Estimated cost of providing uninsured discounts   245,687   177,206   160,122 
Estimated cost of providing uncompensated care  $ 320,914  $ 260,589  $ 245,556 
Concentration of Revenues: Our seven acute care hospitals and seven free-standing emergency departments in the Las Vegas, Nevada, market 
contributed, on a combined basis, 15% in 2024, 14% in 2023 and 15% in 2022 of our consolidated net revenues. 
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash: We consider all highly liquid investments purchased with maturities of three months or less to be 
cash equivalents.  
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash as reported in the consolidated statements of cash flows are presented separately on our consolidated 
balance sheets as follow:
  (amounts in thousands)  
  2024   2023   2022  
Cash and cash equivalents  $ 125,983  $ 119,439  $ 102,818 
Restricted cash (a)   98,769   95,031   98,019 
Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash  $ 224,752  $ 214,470  $ 200,837 
 
(a)Restricted cash is included in other assets on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consists of statutorily required capital reserves 
related to our commercial insurance subsidiary.
The fair value of our restricted cash was computed based upon quotes received from financial institutions. We consider these to be “level 1” in the 
fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with financial securities.  
 

 
99Property and Equipment: Property and equipment are stated at cost. Expenditures for renewals and improvements are charged to the property 
accounts. Replacements, maintenance and repairs which do not improve or extend the life of the respective asset are expensed as incurred. We remove the 
cost and the related accumulated depreciation from the accounts for assets sold or retired and the resulting gains or losses are included in the results of 
operations. Construction-in-progress includes both construction projects and equipment not yet placed into service.
Our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2022, include a pre-tax provision for asset impairment of approximately $58 million, 
which is included in other operating expenses on the accompanying consolidated statements of income, to write-down the asset value of Desert Springs 
Hospital Medical Center, a 282-bed acute care hospital located in Las Vegas, Nevada. In early 2023, as a result of various competitive pressures and 
operational challenges experienced in the market, which had a significant unfavorable impact on the hospital's results of operations during the past year, as 
well as physical plant constraints and limitations resulting from the advanced age of the facility (which opened in 1971), we announced plans to 
discontinue all inpatient operations by March of 2023. For a period of time, we plan to continue providing emergency department services within a portion 
of the existing facility while we construct a new free-standing emergency department on the hospital's campus. The provision for asset impairment reduced 
the asset values of the facility's real estate and equipment to their estimated fair values.       
We capitalized interest during the construction period of major construction projects and during the development and implementation of information 
technology applications amounting to $38.9 million during 2024, $24.4 million during 2023 and $8.6 million during 2022.
Depreciation is provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of buildings and improvements (twenty to forty years) and 
equipment (three to fifteen years). Depreciation expense was $559.6 million during 2024, $535.6 million during 2023 and $544.0 million during 2022. 
Long-Lived Assets: We review our long-lived assets, including intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of our 
asset based on our estimate of its undiscounted future cash flows. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, 
the asset is written down to its estimated fair value and an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values are determined based on estimated future cash flows 
using appropriate discount rates.
Goodwill: Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or sooner if the indicators of impairment arise. Our 
judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and operational performance of each reporting unit.  We have 
designated October 1st as our annual impairment assessment date and performed quantitative impairment assessments as of October 1, 2024 which 
indicated no impairment of goodwill.  There were also no goodwill impairments during 2023 or 2022. Future changes in the estimates used to conduct the 
impairment reviews, including profitability and market value projections, could indicate impairment in future periods potentially resulting in a write-off of 
a portion or all of our goodwill. 
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the two years ended December 31, 2024 were as follows (in thousands):
 
  Acute Care
Services   Behavioral
Health
Services   Total
Consolidated 
Balance, January 1, 2023  $ 516,626  $3,392,830  $3,909,456 
Goodwill acquired during the period   0   4,598   4,598 
Goodwill divested during the period   0   (6,062)  (6,062)
Adjustments to goodwill (a)   2   24,413   24,415 
Balance, December 31, 2023   516,628   3,415,779   3,932,407 
Goodwill acquired during the period   13,252   0   13,252 
Goodwill divested during the period   0   (5,298)  (5,298)
Adjustments to goodwill (a)   0   (7,482)  (7,482)
Balance, December 31, 2024  $ 529,880  $3,402,999  $3,932,879 
 
(a) The changes in the Behavioral Health Services’ goodwill consist of foreign currency translation adjustments.
Other Assets and Intangible Assets: Other assets consist primarily of amounts related to: (i) intangible assets acquired in connection with our 
acquisitions of Cambian Group, PLC’s adult services’ division during 2015,  Ascend Health Corporation during 2012 and Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. during 
2010; (ii) prepaid fees for various software and other applications used by our hospitals; (iii) costs incurred in connection with the purchase and 
implementation of an electronic health records application for each of our acute care facilities; (iv) statutorily required capital reserves related to our 
commercial insurance subsidiary ($118 million and $113 million as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively); (v) deposits; (vi) investments in various 
businesses, including Universal Health Realty Income Trust ($6 million and $7 million as of as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively) and Premier, 
Inc. ($47 million and $50 million as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively); (vii) the invested assets related to a deferred compensation 

 
100plan that is held by an independent trustee in a rabbi-trust and that has a related payable included in other noncurrent liabilities, and; (viii) other 
miscellaneous assets.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more often if indicators of impairment arise. Our judgments regarding the 
existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and operational performance of each asset.  We have designated October 1st as our 
annual impairment assessment date and performed impairment assessments as of October 1, 2024 which indicated no impairment. There were also no 
intangible asset impairments during 2023 or 2022.
      The following table shows the amounts recorded as net intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023:
 
  (amounts in thousands)  
  2024   2023  
Medicare licenses (a)  $ 57,226  $ 57,226 
Certificates of need   7,987   7,501 
Contract relationships and other (net of $57,236 and $56,288 of 
accumulated amortization for 2024 and 2023, respectively)   11,060   12,291 
Net Intangible Assets  $ 76,273  $ 77,018 
(a) Indefinite lives.
Supplies: Supplies, which consist primarily of medical supplies, are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market.
Self-Insured/Other Insurance Risks: We provide for self-insured risks, primarily general and professional liability claims, workers’ compensation 
claims and healthcare and dental claims.  Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and general liability claims is based on a number of factors 
including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical 
settlement amounts and jury verdicts, estimates of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable 
under our commercial insurance policies.  All relevant information, including our own historical experience, applicable per occurrence and aggregate self-
insured retentions, and limitations and exclusions pursuant to our commercial insurance policies, is used in estimating our expected liability for self-insured 
claims. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our 
current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Our estimated self-insured reserves are reviewed and changed, if 
necessary, at each reporting date and changes are recognized currently as additional expense or as a reduction of expense. Given our significant exposure to 
professional and general liability claims, there can be no assurance that a sharp increase in the number and/or severity of claims asserted against us, and/or 
reductions in the amount of commercial coverage available to us, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.
In addition, we also: (i) own commercial health insurers headquartered in Nevada and Puerto Rico, and; (ii) maintain self-insured employee benefits 
programs for employee healthcare and dental claims. The ultimate costs related to these programs/operations include expenses for claims incurred and paid 
in addition to an accrual for the estimated expenses incurred in connection with claims incurred but not yet reported. See Note 8 - Commitments and 
Contingencies for additional disclosure related to our self-insured general and professional liability and workers’ compensation liability.
Income Taxes: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the amount of taxes payable or deductible in future years as a result of 
differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements. We believe that future income will enable 
us to realize our deferred tax assets net of recorded valuation allowances relating to state and foreign net operating loss carry-forwards, tax credits, and 
interest deduction limitations.
Due to recent guidance and enacted laws surrounding the global 15% minimum tax rate that will be effective after 2024 from the Organization for 
Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD"), as well as jurisdictions that we operate in, we anticipate adverse effects to our provision for income 
taxes as well as cash taxes. Currently, the United States has not enacted legislation that aligns with the OECD global minimum tax rate. We do not expect 
these effects to be material and will continue to monitor changes in tax policies and laws issued by the OECD and jurisdictions in which we operate.
We operate in multiple jurisdictions with varying tax laws. We are subject to audits by any of these taxing authorities.  We believe that adequate 
accruals have been provided for federal, foreign and state taxes. 
See Note 6-Income Taxes for additional disclosure. 
Other Noncurrent Liabilities: Other noncurrent liabilities include the long-term portion of our professional and general liability, workers’ 
compensation reserves, pension and deferred compensation liabilities, and liabilities incurred in connection with split-dollar life insurance agreements on 
the lives of our executive chairman of the board and his wife. 
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests and Noncontrolling Interest: As of December 31, 2024, outside owners held noncontrolling, minority 
ownership interests of: (i) approximately 7% in an acute care facility located in Texas; (ii) 49%, 20%, 30%, 

 
10120%, 25%, and 48% in six behavioral health care facilities located in Arizona, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Washington, Missouri, and Iowa, respectively, (iii) 26% 
and 49% in two behavioral health care facilities located in Michigan (one currently under construction with an expected opening in the second quarter of 
2025) and; (iv) approximately 5% in an acute care facility and 49% in a surgery center, located in Nevada. The noncontrolling interest and redeemable 
noncontrolling interest balances of $83 million and $13 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2024, consist primarily of the third-party ownership 
interests in these hospitals.
In August, 2022, we purchased the 20% noncontrolling ownership interest in a hospital majority owned by us, located in Washington D.C. for $51 
million.  We now have 100% ownership interest in the hospital.  The noncontrolling interest balance was reclassified to retained earnings and is included in 
common stockholders’ equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and in retained earnings in the accompanying consolidated statements of 
changes in equity.
In connection with the two behavioral health care facilities located in Pennsylvania and Ohio, the minority ownership interests of which are reflected 
as redeemable noncontrolling interests on our consolidated balance sheets, the outside owners have “put options” to put their entire ownership interest to us 
at any time. If exercised, the put option requires us to purchase the minority member’s interest at fair market value. Accordingly, the amounts recorded as 
redeemable noncontrolling interests on our consolidated balance sheets reflect the estimated fair market value of these ownership interests. 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income: The accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) component of stockholders’ equity 
includes: net unrealized gains and losses on effective cash flow hedges, foreign currency translation adjustments and the net minimum pension liability of a 
non-contributory defined benefit pension plan which covers employees at one of our subsidiaries. See Note 11 - Pension Plan for additional disclosure 
regarding the defined benefit pension plan.
The amounts recognized in AOCI for the three years ended December 31, 2024 were as follows (in thousands):
 
  Net Unrealized
Gains (Losses) on
Effective Cash
Flow Hedges   Foreign
Currency
Translation
Adjustment   Minimum
Pension
Liability   Total
AOCI  
Balance, January 1, 2022, net of income tax  $ (17) $ 33,524  $ (3,216) $ 30,291 
2022 activity:             
Pretax amount   0   (37,310)  (2,869)  (40,179)
Income tax effect   0   (469)  689   220 
Change, net of income tax   0   (37,779)  (2,180)  (39,959)
Balance, January 1, 2023, net of income tax  $ (17) $ (4,255) $ (5,396) $ (9,668)
2023 activity:             
Pretax amount   0   15,271   4,166   19,437 
Income tax effect   0   520   (1,000)  (480)
Change, net of income tax   0   15,791   3,166   18,957 
Balance, January 1, 2024, net of income tax   (17)  11,536   (2,230)  9,289 
2024 activity:             
Pretax amount   17   (3,237)  2,416   (804)
Income tax effect   0   (704)  (580)  (1,284)
Change, net of income tax   17   (3,941)  1,836   (2,088)
Balance, December 31, 2024, net of income tax  $ —  $ 7,595  $ (394) $ 7,201 
 
Accounting for Derivative Financial Investments and Hedging Activities and Foreign Currency Forward Exchange Contracts: We manage 
our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. To manage this risk in a cost-
effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or 
variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. We account for our derivative and hedging activities using the Financial Accounting 
Standard Board’s (“FASB”) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be 
carried at fair value on the balance sheet. For derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging 
instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction.
Derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of 
forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the 
balance sheets as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) within 
statements of changes in equity. Amounts are reclassified from AOCI to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects 
earnings. From time to time, we use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. Such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in 
offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability.

 
102For hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge’s inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is 
performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in 
cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future.
We use forward exchange contracts to hedge our net investment in foreign operations against movements in exchange rates. The effective portion of 
the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is recorded in foreign currency translation adjustment within accumulated other comprehensive income and 
remains there until either the sale or liquidation of the subsidiary. 
Stock-Based Compensation: We have a number of stock-based employee compensation plans. Pursuant to the FASB’s guidance, we expense the 
grant-date fair value of stock options and other equity-based compensation pursuant to the straight-line method over the stated vesting period of the award 
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The expense associated with share-based compensation arrangements is a non-cash charge. In the 
consolidated statements of cash flows, share-based compensation expense is an adjustment to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities.
Earnings per Share: Basic earnings per share are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted 
earnings per share are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year adjusted to give effect to common stock 
equivalents.
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share, for the periods indicated (in thousands, except per share data):
 
  Twelve Months Ended December 31,  
  2024   2023   2022  
Basic and diluted:          
Net Income  $1,163,109  $ 719,307  $ 656,982 
Less: Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling
   interest ("NCI")   (21,012)  (1,512)  18,627 
Less: Net income attributable to unvested restricted share
   grants   (50)  (308)  (748)
Net income attributable to UHS—basic and diluted  $1,142,047  $ 717,487  $ 674,861 
Basic earnings per share attributable to UHS:          
Weighted average number of common shares—basic   66,554   69,321   73,118 
Total basic earnings per share  $ 17.16  $ 10.35  $ 9.23 
Diluted earnings per share attributable to UHS:          
Weighted average number of common shares   66,554   69,321   73,118 
Net effect of dilutive stock options and grants based
   on the treasury stock method   1,342   804   714 
Weighted average number of common shares and
   equivalents—diluted   67,896   70,125   73,832 
Total diluted earnings per share  $ 16.82  $ 10.23  $ 9.14 
The “Net effect of dilutive stock options and grants based on the treasury stock method”, for all years presented above, excludes certain outstanding 
stock options applicable to each year since the effect would have been anti-dilutive. The excluded weighted-average stock options totaled approximately 
600,000 during 2024, 5.1 million during 2023 and 6.0 million during 2022.  
Fair Value of Financial Instruments: The fair values of our debt and investments are based on quoted market prices. The fair values of other long-
term debt, including capital lease obligations, are estimated by discounting cash flows using period-end interest rates and market conditions for instruments 
with similar maturities and credit quality. The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheets for cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and short-
term borrowings approximates their fair values due to the short-term nature of these instruments. Accordingly, these items have been excluded from the fair 
value disclosures included elsewhere in these notes to consolidated financial statements.
Use of Estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the 
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Mergers and Acquisitions: The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires that the assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values with limited exceptions. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would 
be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Any 

 
103excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and 
costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as incurred. The fair value of intangible assets, including Medicare licenses, certificates of need, 
tradenames and certain contracts, is based on significant judgments made by our management, and accordingly, for significant items we typically obtain 
assistance from third party valuation specialists.
GPO Agreement/Minority Ownership Interest: During 2013, we entered into a new group purchasing organization agreement (“GPO”) with 
Premier, Inc. (“Premier"), a healthcare performance improvement alliance, and acquired a minority interest in the GPO for a nominal amount. During the 
fourth quarter of 2013, in connection with the completion of an initial public offering of the stock of Premier, we received cash proceeds for the sale of a 
portion of our ownership interest in the GPO, which were recorded as deferred income, on a pro rata basis, as a reduction to our supplies expense over the 
initial expected life of the GPO agreement. Also in connection with this GPO agreement, we received shares of restricted stock in Premier which vest 
ratably over a seven-year period (2014 through 2020), contingent upon our continued participation and minority ownership interest in the GPO. We 
recognized the fair value of this restricted stock, as a reduction to our supplies expense, in our consolidated statements of income, on a pro rata basis, over 
the vesting period. During the third quarter of 2020, we entered into an agreement with Premier pursuant to the terms of which, among other things, our 
ownership interest in Premier was converted into shares of Class A Common Stock of Premier.  We have elected to retain a portion of the previously vested 
shares of Premier, the value of which is included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheets.  Based upon the closing price of Premier’s stock on 
each respective date, the market value of our shares of Premier was $47 million and $50 million as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.  The 
change in market value of these shares is recorded as an unrealized gain/loss and included in “Other (income) expense, net” on our consolidated statements 
of income. Additionally, Premier paid cash dividends of $1.9 million during both 2024 and 2023 and $1.8 million during 2022, which are included in 
“Other (income) expense, net” in our consolidated statements of income.  
Provider Taxes: We incur health-care related taxes (“Provider Taxes”) imposed by states in the form of a licensing fee, assessment or other 
mandatory payment which are related to: (i) healthcare items or services; (ii) the provision of, or the authority to provide, the health care items or services, 
or; (iii) the payment for the health care items or services. Such Provider Taxes are subject to various federal regulations that limit the scope and amount of 
the taxes that can be levied by states in order to secure federal matching funds as part of their respective state Medicaid programs. We derive a related 
Medicaid reimbursement benefit from assessed Provider Taxes in the form of Medicaid claims based payment increases and/or lump sum Medicaid 
supplemental payments. 
Under these programs, including the impact of the Texas Uncompensated Care and Upper Payment Limit program, the Texas Delivery System 
Reform Incentive program, and various other state programs, we earned revenues (before Provider Taxes) of approximately $1.499 billion during 2024, 
$853 million during 2023 and $784 million during 2022. These revenues were offset by Provider Taxes of approximately $536 million during 2024, $297 
million during 2023 and $287 million during 2022, which are recorded in other operating expenses on the consolidated statements of income as included 
herein. The aggregate net benefit from these programs was $963 million during 2024, $556 million during 2023 and $497 million during 2022. The 
aggregate net benefit pursuant to these programs is earned from multiple states and therefore no particular state’s portion is individually material to our 
consolidated financial statements. In addition, under various disproportionate share hospital payment programs and state plan amendment programs, we 
earned revenues of $53 million in 2024, $73 million in 2023 and $75 million in 2022.
Recent Accounting Standards: During 2024, we adopted ASU 2023-07, “Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures (Topic 280)”. ASU 
2023-07 modifies reportable segment disclosure requirements, primarily through enhanced disclosures about segment expenses categorized as significant 
or regularly provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The standard was applied retrospectively to all periods presented in the financial 
statements.  See Note 12 - Segment Reporting for the required disclosures.
 In November 2024, the FASB issued ASU 2024-03, “Income Statement-Reporting Comprehensive Income-Expense Disaggregation Disclosures 
(subtopic 220-40)". ASU 2024-03 requires disclosures, in the notes to financial statements, of specified information about certain costs and expenses.  This 
ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2026, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2027.  We are 
currently evaluating the impact this new standard will have on the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09, “Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures (Topic 740)”. ASU 2023-09 requires enhanced 
disclosures on income taxes paid, adds disaggregation of continuing operations before income taxes between foreign and domestic earnings and defines 
specific categories for the reconciliation of jurisdictional tax rate to effective tax rate. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 
2024, and can be applied on a prospective basis. We are currently evaluating the impact this new standard will have on the related disclosures in the 
consolidated financial statements.
From time to time, new accounting guidance is issued by the FASB or other standard setting bodies that is adopted by us as of the effective date or, 
in some cases where early adoption is permitted, in advance of the effective date. We have assessed the recently 

 
104issued guidance that are not yet effective and, unless otherwise indicated above, we believe the new guidance will not have a material impact on our results 
of operations, cash flows or financial position.
Foreign Currency Translation: Assets and liabilities of our U.K. subsidiaries are denominated in pound sterling and translated into U.S. dollars at: 
(i) the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date, and; (ii) average rates of exchange prevailing during the year for revenues and expenses. The currency 
translation adjustments are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. See Note 3 - Financial Instruments and Fair Value 
Measurement for additional disclosure.
 
2) ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES
Years ended December 31, 2024:
2024 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses:
During 2024, we spent $19 million on the acquisition of businesses and properties. 
2024 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses:
During 2024, we received $39 million from the sale of assets and businesses.
Year ended December 31, 2023:
2023 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses:
During 2023, we spent $4 million on the acquisition of businesses and properties. 
2023 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses:
During 2023, we received $24 million from the sale of assets and businesses.  
Year ended December 31, 2022:
2022 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses:
During 2022, we spent $20 million to acquire various businesses and properties. 
2022 Divestiture of Assets:
During 2022, we received $12 million from the sales of various assets
 
3) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
Cash Flow Hedges:
When applicable, we measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. The fair value of our interest rate swaps is based on quotes 
from our counterparties.  We consider those inputs to be “level 2” in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in 
connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. During the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, we had no cash flow hedges 
outstanding.
Foreign Currency Forward Exchange Contracts:
We use forward exchange contracts to hedge our net investment in foreign operations against movements in exchange rates. The effective portion of 
the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is recorded in foreign currency translation adjustment within accumulated other comprehensive income and 
remains there until either the sale or liquidation of the subsidiary.  In connection with these forward exchange contracts, we recorded net cash inflows of 
approximately $13 million during 2024, net cash outflows of approximately $41 million during 2023 and net cash inflows of approximately $95 million 
during 2022.
Derivatives Hedging Relationships:
The following table presents the effects of our foreign currency foreign exchange contracts on our results of operations for the three years ended 
December 31 (in thousands):

 
105          
 Gain/(Loss) recognized in AOCI   
    
 December 31,   December 31,   December 31,   
 2024   2023   2022   
          
Net Investment Hedge relationships          
Foreign currency foreign exchange contracts $ 15,344  $ (45,748) $ 96,698  
No other gains or losses were recognized in income related to derivatives in Subtopic 815-20. 
Fair Value Measurement
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.  The following fair value 
hierarchy classifies the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into one of three levels:
• Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.  These included quoted prices 
for similar assets or liabilities in active markets and quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active.
• Level 3: Unobservable inputs that reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions.
The following tables present the assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis:
 
 Balance at  Balance Sheet Basis of Fair Value Measurement  
(in thousands) December 31, 2024  Location Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  
Assets:          
Money market mutual funds $ 115,399 Other noncurrent assets $115,399     
Certificates of deposit  2,206 Other noncurrent assets    2,206   
Equity securities  47,333 Other noncurrent assets  47,333     
Deferred compensation assets  49,222 Other noncurrent assets  49,222     
Foreign currency forward exchange contracts 572 Other current assets    572   
 $ 214,732  $211,954 $ 2,778  - 
Liabilities:          
Deferred compensation liability  49,222 Other noncurrent liabilities  49,222     
 $ 49,222  $ 49,222 $ -  - 
          
 Balance at  Balance Sheet Basis of Fair Value Measurement  
(in thousands) December 31, 2023  Location Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  
Assets:          
Money market mutual funds $ 111,129 Other noncurrent assets $111,129     
Certificates of deposit  2,300 Other noncurrent assets    2,300   
Equity securities  49,923 Other noncurrent assets  49,923     
Deferred compensation assets  43,060 Other noncurrent assets  43,060     
 $ 206,412  $204,112 $ 2,300  - 
Liabilities:          
Foreign currency forward exchange contracts$ 1,911 Accrued liabilities other   $ 1,911   
Deferred compensation liability  43,060 Other noncurrent liabilities  43,060     
 $ 44,971  $ 43,060 $ 1,911  - 
The fair value of our money market mutual funds, certificates of deposit and equity securities with a readily determinable fair value are computed 
based upon quoted market prices in an active market. The fair value of deferred compensation assets and the 

 
106offsetting liability are computed based on market prices in an active market held in a rabbi trust.  The fair value of our foreign currency exchange contracts 
is valued using quoted forward exchange rates and spot rates at the reporting date.
 
4) LONG-TERM DEBT
A summary of long-term debt follows:
  December 31,  
  2024   2023  
  (amounts in thousands)  
Long-term debt:       
Notes and Mortgages payable (including obligations under finance leases of $92,530 in 2024 and 
$72,693 in 2023) and term loans with varying maturities through 2099; weighted average interest 
rates of 3.8% in 2024 and 3.5% in 2023 (see Note 7 regarding finance leases)  $ 206,046  $ 178,511 
Tranche A term loan   1,192,500   2,258,750 
Revolving credit facility   130,000   495,500 
2.65% Senior Secured Notes due 2030, net of unamortized discount of $1,291 in 2024 and $1,517 in 
2023   798,709   798,483 
1.65% Senior Secured Notes due 2026, net of unamortized discount of $288 in 2024 and $463 in 
2023   699,712   699,537 
2.65% Senior Secured Notes due 2032, net of unamortized discount of $864 in 2024 and $994 in 
2023   499,136   499,006 
4.625% Senior Secured Notes due 2029, net of unamortized discount of $204 in 2024   499,796   — 
5.050% Senior Secured Notes due 2034, net of unamortized discount of $1,533 in 2024   498,467   — 
Total debt before unamortized financing costs   4,524,366   4,929,787 
Less-Unamortized financing costs   (19,825)  (17,318)
Total debt after unamortized financing costs   4,504,541   4,912,469 
Less-Amounts due within one year   (40,059)  (126,686)
Long-term debt  $ 4,464,482  $ 4,785,783 
Credit Facilities and Outstanding Debt Securities
In September, 2024, we completed the following financing transactions:
• The public offering of $500 million of aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior secured notes due on October 15, 2029 ("2029 Notes");
• The public offering of $500 million of aggregate principal amount of 5.050% senior secured notes due on October 15, 2034 ("2034 Notes");
• Amended our credit agreement to:
o Extend the maturity date to September, 2029 (from August, 2026 previously);
o Increase the revolving credit facility to $1.3 billion (from $1.2 billion previously), and;
o reduce the outstanding borrowings pursuant to the tranche term loan A facility by approximately $1.0 billion, to $1.2 billion, utilizing 
the proceeds generated from the issuance of the above-mentioned 2029 Notes and 2034 Notes.
On September 26, 2024, we entered into a tenth amendment ("Tenth Amendment") to our credit agreement ("Credit Agreement"), dated as of 
November 15, 2010, as amended and restated at various times from March, 2011 to June, 2022, among UHS, as borrower, the several banks and other 
financial institutions or entities from time to time parties thereto, as lenders, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent. The Tenth 
Amendment provided for: (i) an extension of the maturity date to September 26, 2029; (ii) a new revolving credit facility of up to $1.3 billion (which as of 
December 31, 2024, had $1.17 billion of aggregate available borrowing capacity, net of $130 million of outstanding borrowings and $3 million of letters of 
credit), and; (iii) a new replacement tranche A term loan facility ("Tranche A Term Loan") of up to $1.2 billion (which had $1.19 billion of outstanding 
borrowings as of December 31, 2024).
Pursuant to the terms of the Tenth Amendment, the Tranche A Term Loan provides for installment payments of $7.5 million per quarter 
commencing on December 31, 2024 through September 30, 2026, and $15.0 million per quarter commencing on December 31, 2026 through June 30, 
2029. The unpaid principal balance at June 30, 2029 (scheduled to be $975.0 million) is payable on the September 26, 2029 scheduled maturity date of the 
Credit Agreement.

 
107Revolving credit and Tranche A Term Loan borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at our election at either (1) the ABR rate which is 
defined as the rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the lender’s prime rate, (b) the greater of the federal funds effective rate and the overnight bank 
funding rate, plus 0.5% and (c) one month term SOFR rate plus 1.1%, in each case, plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at 
the end of each quarter ranging from 0.25% to 0.625%, or (2) the one, three or six month term SOFR rate plus 0.1% (at our election), plus an applicable 
margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 1.25% to 1.625%. As of December 31, 2024, the applicable 
margins were 0.375% for ABR-based loans and 1.375% for SOFR-based loans under the revolving credit and term loan A facilities.  The revolving credit 
facility includes a $125 million sub-limit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement is secured by certain assets of the Company and our material 
subsidiaries (which generally excludes asset classes such as substantially all of the patient-related accounts receivable of our acute care hospitals, if sold to 
a receivables facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and certain real estate assets and assets held in joint-ventures with third parties) and is guaranteed 
by our material subsidiaries.
The Credit Agreement includes a material adverse change clause that must be represented at each draw. The Credit Agreement also contains 
covenants that include a limitation on sales of assets, mergers, change of ownership, liens, indebtedness, transactions with affiliates, dividends and stock 
repurchases; and requires compliance with financial covenants including maximum leverage. We were in compliance with all required covenants as of 
December 31, 2024 (pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, as amended on September 26, 2024) and as of December 31, 2023 (pursuant to the 
terms of the previous credit agreement).
As mentioned above, on September 26, 2024, we completed the public offering of: (i) $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 4.625%, 
2029 Notes, and; (ii) $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 5.050%, 2034 Notes (and together with the 2029 Notes, the "2029 and 2034 Notes"), 
each guaranteed on a senior secured basis by all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries that guarantee our senior secured credit facility or 
our other first lien obligations or any junior lien obligations (the “Subsidiary Guarantors”).  The 2029 and 2034 Notes have been registered under the 
Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), pursuant to the Issuer’s and the Subsidiary Guarantors’ registration statement on Form S-3 (File 
No. 333-282135), including the prospectus dated September 16, 2024, and a related prospectus supplement dated September 17, 2024, as filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on September 19, 2024.
As of December 31, 2024, including the above-mentioned newly issued Notes, we had combined aggregate principal of $3.0 billion from the 
following senior secured notes:
• $700 million aggregate principal amount of 1.65% senior secured notes due in September, 2026 ("2026 Notes") which were issued on August 
24, 2021. Interest on the 2026 Notes is payable on March 1st and September 1st until the maturity date of September 1, 2026.
• $500 million of aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior secured notes due in October, 2029 ("2029 Notes") which were issued on 
September 26, 2024. Interest on the 2029 Notes is payable on April 15th and October 15th, commencing April 15, 2025 until the maturity 
date of October 15, 2029.
• $800 million aggregate principal amount of 2.65% senior secured notes due in October, 2030 ("2030 Notes") which were issued on 
September 21, 2020. Interest on the 2030 Notes is payable on April 15th and October 15th, until the maturity date of October 15, 2030.
• $500 million of aggregate principal amount of 2.65% senior secured notes due in January, 2032 ("2032 Notes") which were issued on August 
24, 2021. Interest on the 2032 Notes is payable on January 15th and July 15th until the maturity date of January 15, 2032.
• $500 million of aggregate principal amount of 5.050% senior secured notes due in October, 2034 ("2034 Notes") which were issued on 
September 26, 2024. Interest on the 2034 Notes is payable on April 15th and October 15th, commencing on April 15, 2025 until the maturity 
date of October 15, 2034.
The 2026 Notes, 2030 Notes and 2032 Notes (collectively the "2026, 2030 and 2032 Notes") were initially issued only to qualified institutional 
buyers under Rule 144A and to non-U.S. persons outside the United States in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. In December, 2022, we 
completed a registered exchange offer in which virtually all previously outstanding 2026, 2030 and 2032 Notes were exchanged for identical 2026, 2030 
and 2032 Notes that were registered under the Securities Act, and thereby became freely transferable (subject to certain restrictions applicable to affiliates 
and broker dealers). 2026, 2030 and 2032 Notes originally issued under Rule 144A or Regulation S that were not exchanged remain outstanding and may 
not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration under the Securities Act or an applicable exemption from registration requirements 
thereunder.
The 2026, 2030 and 2032 Notes, and the 2029 and 2034 Notes (collectively "All the Notes") are guaranteed (the “Guarantees”) on a senior secured 
basis by our Subsidiary Guarantors that guarantee our Credit Agreement, or other first lien obligations or any junior lien obligations.  All the Notes and the 
Guarantees are secured by first-priority liens, subject to permitted liens, on certain of the Company’s and the Subsidiary Guarantors’ assets now owned or 
acquired in the future by the Company or the Subsidiary Guarantors (other than real property, accounts receivable sold pursuant to a Company-related 
receivables facility (as defined in the Indenture pursuant to which All the Notes were issued (the “Indentures”), and certain other excluded assets). The 
Company’s obligations with 

 
108respect to All the Notes, the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under the Guarantees, and the performance of all of the Company’s and the 
Subsidiary Guarantors’ other obligations under the Indentures, are secured equally and ratably with the Company’s and the Subsidiary Guarantors’ 
obligations under the Credit Agreement. However, the liens on the collateral securing All the Notes and the Guarantees will be released if: (i) All the Notes 
have investment grade ratings; (ii) no default has occurred and is continuing, and; (iii) the liens on the collateral securing all first lien obligations (including 
the Credit Agreement and All the Notes) and any junior lien obligations are released or the collateral under the Credit Agreement, any other first lien 
obligations and any junior lien obligations is released or no longer required to be pledged. The liens on any collateral securing All the Notes and the 
Guarantees will also be released if the liens on that collateral securing the Credit Agreement, other first lien obligations and any junior lien obligations are 
released.
As discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Relationship with Universal Health Realty Income Trust and Other Related Party 
Transactions, on December 31, 2021, we (through wholly-owned subsidiaries of ours) entered into an asset purchase and sale agreement with Universal 
Health Realty Income Trust (the “Trust”).  Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, as amended, we, among other things, transferred to the Trust, the real 
estate assets of Aiken Regional Medical Center (“Aiken”) and Canyon Creek Behavioral Health (“Canyon Creek”).  In connection with this transaction, 
Aiken and Canyon Creek (as lessees), entered into a master lease and individual property leases, as amended, (with the Trust as lessor), for initial lease 
terms on each property of approximately twelve years, ending on December 31, 2033.  As a result of our purchase option within the Aiken and Canyon 
Creek lease agreements, this asset purchase and sale transaction is accounted for as a failed sale leaseback in accordance with U.S. GAAP and we have 
accounted for the transaction as a financing arrangement. Our lease payments payable to the Trust are recorded to interest expense and as a reduction of the 
outstanding financial liability, and the amount allocated to interest expense is determined based upon our incremental borrowing rate and the outstanding 
financial liability. In connection with this transaction, our consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 reflect financial 
liabilities, which are included in debt, of approximately $74 million and $77 million, respectively.
At December 31, 2024, the carrying value and fair value of our debt were approximately $4.5 billion and $4.2 billion, respectively. At December 31, 
2023, the carrying value and fair value of our debt were approximately $4.9 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively. The fair value of our debt was computed 
based upon quotes received from financial institutions. We consider these to be “level 2” in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance 
for disclosures in connection with debt instruments.
The aggregate scheduled maturities of our total debt outstanding as of December 31, 2024 are as follows:
  (000s)  
2025  $ 40,059 
2026   740,402 
2027   71,501 
2028   72,402 
2029   1,655,608 
Later   1,944,394 
Total maturities before unamortized financing costs   4,524,366 
Less-Unamortized financing costs   (19,825)
Total  $ 4,504,541 
 
5) COMMON STOCK
Dividends
 We declared and paid cash dividends of $.80 per share during each of the last three years amounting to, in the aggregate, $53.3 million during 2024, 
$55.5 million during 2023 and $58.4 million during 2022.  All classes of our common stock have similar economic rights.
Stock Repurchase Programs
As of January 1, 2024, we had an aggregate available repurchase authorization of $422.88 million under our stock repurchase program. In July, 
2024, our Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion increase in our stock repurchase program. As of December 31, 2024, we had an aggregate available 
repurchase authorization of $824.36 million. Pursuant to this program, shares of our Class B Common Stock may be repurchased, from time to time as 
conditions allow, on the open market or in negotiated private transactions. There is no expiration date for our stock repurchase programs.  
The following schedule provides information related to our stock repurchase program for each of the three years ended December 31, 2024. During 
2024, 2,982,906 shares ($598.5 million in the aggregate) were repurchased pursuant to the terms of the stock repurchase program and 375,248 shares 
($72.2 million in the aggregate) were repurchased in connection with the income tax withholding obligations resulting from stock-based compensation 
programs. During 2023, 3,855,046 shares ($524.5 million in the aggregate) were repurchased pursuant to the terms of the stock repurchase program and 
164,649 shares ($22.9 million in the aggregate) were repurchased in connection with the income tax withholding obligations resulting from stock-based 
compensation 

 
109programs. During 2022, 6,666,547 shares ($810.9 million in the aggregate) were repurchased pursuant to the terms of the stock repurchase program and 
153,305 shares ($22.0 million in the aggregate) were repurchased in connection with the income tax withholding obligations resulting from stock-based 
compensation programs. 
 
  Additional
dollars
authorized
for
repurchase
(in
thousands)  Total
number of
shares
purchased 
(a.)   Total
number
of shares
cancelled  Average
price
paid per
share for
forfeited
restricted
shares  Total
number of
shares
purchased
as part of
publicly
announced
programs  Average
price paid
per share
for shares
purchased
as part of
publicly
announced
program   Aggregate
purchase
price paid
(in
thousands)  Aggregate
purchase
price paid
for shares
purchased
as part of
publicly
announced
program   Maximum
number of
dollars
that may
yet be
purchased
under the
program
(in
thousands) 
Balance as of
   January 1, 2022                          $ 358,233 
2022  $1,400,000   6,828,319   8,467  $ 0.01   6,666,547  $ 121.63  $ 832,915  $ 810,865  $ 947,368 
2023  $ —   4,022,051   2,356  $ 0.01   3,855,046  $ 136.05  $ 547,362  $ 524,485  $ 422,883 
2024  $1,000,000   3,358,261   107  $ 0.01   2,982,906  $ 200.65  $ 670,753  $ 598,522  $ 824,361 
Total for three year
   period ended
   December 31, 2024  $2,400,000   14,208,631   10,930  $ 0.01   13,504,499  $ 143.20  $2,051,030  $1,933,872    
 
(a.) Includes 107, 2,356, and 8,467 of restricted shares that were forfeited by former employees pursuant to the terms of our restricted stock purchase plan during 2024, 2023 and 2022, 
respectively.
Stock-based Compensation Plans
At December 31, 2024, we have a number of stock-based employee compensation plans. Pursuant to the FASB’s guidance, we expense the grant-
date fair value of stock options (computed utilizing the Black-Scholes option-pricing model) and other equity-based compensation pursuant to the straight-
line method over the stated vesting period of the awards. 
Pre-tax share-based compensation costs of $54.3 million during 2024, $64.2 million during 2023 and $66.2 million during 2022 were recognized 
related to outstanding stock options. In addition, pre-tax compensation costs of $45.1 million during 2024, $23.5 million during 2023 and $19.1 million 
during 2022 were recognized related to amortization of restricted stock and units as well as discounts provided in connection with shares purchased 
pursuant to our 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.  As of December 31, 2024, there was approximately $149.4 million of unrecognized compensation 
cost related to unvested stock options and restricted stock which is expected to be recognized over the remaining average vesting period of 2.3 years.    
The expense associated with stock-based compensation arrangements is a non-cash charge. In the consolidated statements of cash flows, stock-based 
compensation expense is an adjustment to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities and aggregated to $99.3 million in 2024, $87.7 
million in 2023 and $85.4 million in 2022. In connection with our January 1, 2017 adoption of ASU 2016-09, “Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 
718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting”, our provision for income taxes and our net income attributable to UHS were 
favorably impacted by $15.9 million during 2024 (net of a $10.2 million unfavorable impact resulting from executive compensation limitations pursuant to 
IRC section 162(m)), unfavorably impacted by $4.7 million during 2023, and unfavorably impacted by $636,000 during 2022.
In 2005, we adopted the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the “Stock Incentive Plan”) which was amended in 2008, 2010, 2015 and 2017 and was 
canceled in 2020, as discussed below. An aggregate of 35.6 million shares of Class B Common Stock had been reserved under the Stock Incentive Plan, the 
remaining balance of which was canceled in 2020. During 2020, stock options, net of cancellations of approximately 2.2 million were granted under the 
Stock Incentive Plan. Stock options to purchase Class B Common Stock have been granted to our officers, key employees and members of our Board of 
Directors. Commencing in 2018, our key employees and non-executive officers began receiving a portion of their stock-based compensation in the form of 
restricted stock or restricted stock units (as discussed below) in addition to receiving options to purchase Class B Common Stock. Commencing in 2024 our 
key employees and non-executive officers began receiving their stock-based compensation in the form of restricted stock units only.
In 2020, we adopted the 2020 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan (the “2020 Stock Incentive Plan”) which was amended in 2022 and 2024.  An 
aggregate of 18.1 million shares of Class B Common Stock has been reserved for issuance under the 2020 Stock Incentive Plan.  As of December 31, 2024, 
approximately 8.62 million shares of Class B Common Stock remain available for issuance pursuant to the 2020 Stock Incentive Plan.  Under the 2020 
Stock Incentive Plan, shares that are subject to stock options shall be counted as one share per stock option, and every share that is subject to restricted 
stock awards or restricted stock units shall be counted as four shares. Various other types of equity awards are also permitted under the 2020 Stock 
Incentive Plan. 
During each of the last three years, the following were granted pursuant to the 2020 Stock Incentive Plan (net of cancellations):
• 2024: 3,000 stock options and 514,765 restricted stock units (including 63,362 performance based restricted stock units).

 
110• 2023: 1.6 million stock options and 255,085 restricted stock units (including 93,606 performance based restricted stock units).
• 2022: 1.5 million stock options and 207,253 restricted stock units (including 65,768 performance based restricted stock units, net of 
cancellations). 
Prior to 2024, our annual stock-based compensation awards were generally issued as a blend restricted stock units and stock options. Commencing 
in 2024, our annual stock-based compensation awards were issued fully in restricted stock units and are expected to remain so in future years. Restricted 
stock and restricted stock units issued under the 2020 Stock Incentive Plan do not have rights to receive dividends on unvested restricted awards, however, 
the accrual of dividend equivalents on unvested restricted awards may be permitted. Upon adoption of the 2020 Stock Incentive Plan, no additional awards 
were granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan or the 2010 Employees’ Restricted Stock Purchase Plan (discussed below), and reserves for future 
issuance pursuant to each plan were canceled.
The weighted average grant-date fair values of the restricted stock units issued under the 2020 Stock Incentive Plan during each of the last three 
years, as reflected above, were $181.05 during 2024, $118.14 during 2023 and $142.70 during 2022. The fair value of each restricted stock unit was 
determined as the closing UHS market price on the date of grant. Restricted shares and/or units of Class B Common Stock have been granted to our 
officers, key employees and members of our Board of Directors.
The per option weighted-average grant-date fair values for options granted under the 2020 Stock Incentive Plan were $44.58 during 2024, $41.88 
during 2023 and $45.63 during 2022.  All stock options issued in 2024, 2023 and 2022 were granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market value on 
the date of the grant. The majority of options are exercisable ratably over a four-year period beginning one year after the date of the grant. All outstanding 
options expire five years after the date of the grant. 
The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following weighted 
average assumptions were derived from averaging the number of options granted during the most recent five-year period. The weighted-average 
assumptions reflected below were based upon twenty-two option grants for the five-year period ending December 31, 2024,  thirty option grants for the 
five-year period ending December 31, 2023 and twenty-nine option grants for the five-year period ending December 31, 2022.
 
Year Ended December 31,  2024   2023   2022  
Expected volatility   39%  36%  33%
Risk free Interest rate   2%  2%  2%
Expected life (years)   3.5   3.5   3.6 
Forfeiture rate   7%  7%  7%
Dividend yield   0.8%  0.7%  0.6%
 
The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury zero coupon four year yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The expected life of the stock 
options granted was estimated using the historical behavior of employees. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility for a period equal to the 
stock option’s expected life. Expected dividend yield is based on our dividend yield at the time of grant.  The forfeiture rate is based upon the actual 
historical forfeitures utilizing the 5-year term of the option.
The table below summarizes our stock option activity during the year ended December 31, 2024:
 
Outstanding Options  Number
of Shares   Weighted Average
Exercise
Price   
Balance, January 1, 2024   6,794,794  $ 121.13  
Granted   3,000  $ 154.71  
Exercised   (2,628,331) $ 114.80  
Cancelled   (260,215) $ 128.59  
Balance, December 31, 2024   3,909,248  $ 124.91  
Outstanding options vested and exercisable as of
   December 31, 2024   1,603,412  $ 116.94  
 

 
111The following table provides information about unvested options for the year ended December 31, 2024:
 
  Shares   Weighted
Average
Grant Date
Fair Value  
Unvested options as of January 1, 2024   4,344,181  $ 39.22 
Granted   3,000  $ 44.58 
Vested   (1,783,851) $ 34.43 
Cancelled   (257,494) $ 42.53 
Unvested options as of December 31, 2024   2,305,836  $ 42.56 
 
The following table provides information regarding all options outstanding at December 31, 2024:
 
  Options
Outstanding   Options
Exercisable  
Number of options outstanding   3,909,248   1,603,412 
Weighted average exercise price  $ 124.91  $ 116.94 
Aggregate intrinsic value as of December 31, 2024  $213,073,701  $100,184,865 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)   2.0   1.2 
 
The total in-the-money value of all stock options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 were $185.3 million, $57.1 
million and $49.4 million, respectively.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for options outstanding and weighted average exercise price per share for exercisable options at 
December 31, 2022, 2023 and 2024 were as follows:  
 
Year Ended:  Options
Outstanding   Weighted
Average
Exercise Price
Per Share   Weighted
Average
Remaining
Contractual Life
(in Years)   Exercisable
Options   Weighted
Average
Exercise Price
Per Share   Expected to
Vest
Options   Weighted
Average
Exercise Price
Per Share  
  Shares         Shares      Shares     
2022   7,875,667  $ 122.04   2.5   3,073,714  $ 116.89   4,508,480  $ 121.89 
2023   6,794,794   121.13   2.6   2,450,613   114.96   4,178,237   124.86 
2024   3,909,248   124.91   2.0   1,603,412   116.94   1,838,407   130.20 
In addition to the 2020 Stock Incentive Plan, we have our 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “Employee Stock Plan”), as amended during 
2024, which allows eligible employees to purchase shares of Class B Common Stock at a 10% discount. There were 81,146, 100,507 and 127,538 shares 
issued pursuant to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan during 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.   In connection with the Employee Stock Plan, we have 
reserved 3.0 million shares of Class B Common Stock for issuance and have issued approximately 1.9 million shares as of December 31, 2024. As of 
December 31, 2024, approximately 1.1 million shares of Class B Common Stock remain available for issuance pursuant to this plan.
At December 31, 2024, 24,386,891 shares of Class B Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of Class A, C and D 
Common Stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase Class B Common Stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive 
plans. Class A, C and D Common Stock are convertible on a share for share basis into Class B Common Stock.
 

 
1126) INCOME TAXES
Components of income tax expense/(benefit) are as follows (amounts in thousands):
  Year Ended December 31,  
  2024   2023   2022  
Current          
Federal  $ 311,545  $ 202,895  $ 178,666 
Foreign   10,962   6,505   14,740 
State   45,780   29,677   33,423 
   368,287   239,077   226,829 
Deferred          
Federal   (28,499)  (19,716)  (9,935)
Foreign   (1,318)  3,367   (1,509)
State   (3,643)  (1,609)  (6,107)
   (33,460)  (17,958)  (17,551)
Total  $ 334,827  $ 221,119  $ 209,278 
Our provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 included tax benefits of $13 million and tax expenses of $5 
million and $1 million, respectively, related to employee share-based payments. Excess tax benefits (when the deductible amount related to the settlement 
of employee equity awards for tax purposes exceeds the cumulative compensation cost recognized for financial reporting purposes) and deficiencies, if 
applicable, are recorded as a component of our tax provision.
The foreign provision for income taxes is based on foreign pre-tax earnings of $80 million during each of 2024 and 2023 and $76 million in 2022.  
In the future, we anticipate repatriating only previously taxed foreign earnings subjected as well as any future earnings that would qualify for a full 
dividend received deduction for distributions post-December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2024, the amount of previously taxed earnings and earnings 
that would qualify for a full dividend received deduction total $79 million. At this time, there are no material tax effects related to future cash repatriation 
of undistributed foreign earnings. As such, we have not recognized a deferred tax liability related to existing undistributed earnings.
A reconciliation between the federal statutory rate and the effective tax rate is as follows:
  Year Ended December 31,  
  2024   2023   2022  
Federal statutory rate   21.0%  21.0%  21.0%
State taxes, net of federal income tax benefit   2.3%  2.4%  2.4%
Tax effects of foreign operations   -0.5%  -0.7%  -0.3%
Tax benefit from settlement of employee equity awards   -0.8%  0.4%  0.1%
Other items   0.7%  0.4%  0.5%
Impact of income attributable to noncontrolling interests   -0.3%  0.0%  0.5%
Effective tax rate   22.4%  23.5%  24.2%
Our effective tax rates were 22.4%, 23.5% and 24.2% for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease in our 
effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to 2023, is due primarily to a $16 million decrease in the provision for income taxes 
during 2024, as compared to 2023, from the net tax benefit recorded pursuant to ASU 2016-09, net of the impact of executive compensation limitations 
pursuant to IRC section 162(m). The decrease in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 2022, is due primarily to the 
increase in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests during 2023, as compared to 2022.  
Included in “Other current assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are prepaid federal, state and foreign income taxes amounting to 
approximately $3 million and $37 million as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
The components of deferred taxes are as follows (amounts in thousands):

 
113  Year Ended December 31,  
  2024    2023  
  Assets    Liabilities    Assets    Liabilities  
Self-insurance reserves $ 131,945  $   $ 118,824  $  
Compensation accruals   80,673        81,747     
Doubtful accounts and other reserves   136,067        123,634     
Other currently non-deductible accrued liabilities   19,492        19,926     
Depreciable and amortizable assets       278,412        280,678 
Operating lease liabilities   105,444        106,590     
Right of use assets-operating leases       97,925        101,853 
State and foreign net operating loss carryforwards and other state 
and foreign deferred tax assets  111,388        96,117     
Net pension liabilities – OCI only   121        701     
Other liabilities       7,654        6,715 
 $ 585,130  $ 383,991  $ 547,539  $ 389,246 
Valuation allowance   (82,690)   0    (72,667)   0 
Total deferred income taxes $ 502,440  $ 383,991  $ 474,872  $ 389,246 
At December 31, 2024, state net operating loss carryforwards (losses originating in tax years beginning prior to January 1, 2024, expiring in years 
2025 through 2043), and credit carryforwards available to offset future taxable income approximated $1.1 billion representing approximately $76 million in 
deferred state tax benefit (net of the federal benefit); and state related interest expense carryforwards approximated $129 million representing 
approximately $9 million in deferred state tax benefit (net of the federal benefit). At December 31, 2024, there were foreign net operating losses and 
interest expense carryforwards of approximately $101 million, most of which are carried forward indefinitely, representing approximately $25 million in 
deferred foreign tax benefit. At December 31, 2024, related to a prior year stock acquisition, there were federal net operating losses of approximately $6 
million carried forward indefinitely for federal purposes representing approximately $1 million in deferred federal tax benefits.  
A valuation allowance is required when it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Based on available 
evidence, it is more likely than not that certain of our state tax benefits will not be realized. Therefore, valuation allowances of approximately $78 million 
and $68 million have been reflected as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. During 2024, the valuation allowance on these state tax benefits 
increased by $10 million primarily due to additional net operating losses incurred. In addition, valuation allowances of approximately $4 million have been 
reflected as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, related to foreign net operating losses and credit carryforwards.
During 2024 and 2023, the estimated liabilities for uncertain tax positions (including accrued interest and penalties) were increased less than $1 
million due to tax positions taken in the current and prior years.  The balance at each of the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, if subsequently 
recognized, that would favorably affect the effective tax rate and the provision for income taxes is approximately $2 million as of each date. 
We recognize accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the tax provision. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, 
we have accrued interest and penalties of less than $1 million as of each date. The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for the 2021 and 
subsequent years. Foreign and U.S. state and local jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging for 3 to 4 years. The statute of limitations on 
certain jurisdictions could expire within the next twelve months. It is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change during 
the next 12 months, however, it is anticipated that any such change, if it were to occur, would not have a material impact on our results of operations.
The tabular reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 is as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
  As of  December 31,  
  2024   2023   2022  
Balance at January 1,  $ 2,850  $ 2,727  $ 2,544 
Additions based on tax positions related to the current year   500   500   500 
Additions for tax positions of prior years   189   180   159 
Reductions for tax positions of prior years   (677)  (557)  (461)
Settlements   0   0   (15)
Balance at December 31,  $ 2,862  $ 2,850  $ 2,727 
 

 
1147) LEASE COMMITMENTS
We follow FASB ASU 2016-02 ("Topic 842") "Leases."  Under Topic 842, lessees are required to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance 
sheets for most leases and provide enhanced disclosures. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating.
We have elected the policy exemption that allows lessees to choose to not separate lease and non-lease components by class of underlying asset and 
are applying this expedient to all relevant asset classes.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception of the contract. Our right-of-use assets represent our right to use the underlying 
assets for the lease term and our lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the leases. Right-of-use assets and lease 
liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. We use the implicit rate noted within the 
contract if known or determinable.  If the implicit rate is not readily available, we use our estimated incremental borrowing rate, which is derived using a 
collateralized borrowing rate for the same currency and term as the associated lease. A right-of-use asset and lease liability is not recognized for leases with 
an initial term of 12 months or less and we recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term within lease and rental 
expense.
Our operating leases are primarily for real estate, including certain acute care facilities, off-campus outpatient facilities, medical office buildings, 
and corporate and other administrative offices.  Our real estate lease agreements typically have initial terms of five to ten years.  These real estate leases 
may include one or more options to renew, with renewals that can extend the lease term from five to ten years. The exercise of lease renewal options is at 
our sole discretion. When determining the lease term, we included options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will 
exercise that option.
Five of our hospital facilities are held under operating leases with Universal Health Realty Income Trust with two hospital terms expiring in 2026, 
two expiring in 2033, and one expiring in 2040 (see Note 9 for additional disclosure). We also lease the real property of certain facilities (see Item 2. 
Properties for additional disclosure).
The components of lease expense for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 are as follows (in thousands):
 Twelve months ended
December 31,  
 2024   2023   2022  
         
Operating lease cost $ 101,915  $ 99,812  $ 90,326 
Variable and short term lease cost (a)  44,518   41,214   41,300 
Total lease and rental expense $ 146,433  $ 141,026  $ 131,626 
         
Finance lease cost:         
Amortization of property under capital lease $ 5,923  $ 4,998  $ 5,110 
Interest on debt of property under capital lease  2,006   3,771   3,903 
Total finance lease cost $ 7,929  $ 8,769  $ 9,013 
(a) Includes equipment, month-to-month and leases with a maturity of less than 12 months.
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 are as follows (in thousands): 
 
 Twelve months ended
December 31,  
 2024   2023   2022  
         
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:         
Operating cash flows from operating leases $ 134,543  $ 129,299  $ 124,704 
Operating cash flows from finance leases $ 3,652  $ 3,832  $ 3,963 
Financing cash flows from finance leases $ 3,973  $ 3,817  $ 3,454 
         
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations:         
Operating leases $ 68,029  $ 62,223  $ 163,679 
Finance leases $ 23,700  $ 452  $ 1,066 
 

 
115 
Supplemental balance sheets information related to leases as of December 31, 2024 and 2023 are as follows (in thousands):
 
 December 31,   December 31,  
 2024   2023  
      
Operating Leases      
Right of use assets-operating leases $ 418,719  $ 433,962 
      
Operating lease liabilities $ 74,649  $ 71,600 
Operating lease liabilities noncurrent  376,239   382,559 
Total operating lease liabilities $ 450,888  $ 454,159 
      
Finance Leases      
Property and equipment $ 125,018  $ 101,318 
Accumulated depreciation  (44,346)   (38,423)
Property and equipment, net $ 80,672  $ 62,895 
      
Current maturities of long-term debt $ 5,282  $ 3,050 
Long-term debt  87,248   69,643 
Total finance lease liabilities $ 92,530  $ 72,693 
      
Weighted Average remaining lease term, years      
Operating leases  17.1   16.5 
Finance leases  19.6   20.0 
      
Weighted Average discount rate      
Operating leases  5.4%  5.2%
Finance leases  5.5%  5.5%
Future maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2024 are as follows (in thousands):
 Operating Leases   Finance Leases  
Year ending December 31,      
2025 $ 88,488  $ 10,069 
2026  79,309   10,074 
2027  61,874   10,231 
2028  50,009   10,391 
2029  40,748   10,556 
Later years  598,452   95,795 
Total lease payments  918,880   147,116 
less imputed interest  (467,992)  (54,586)
Total $ 450,888  $ 92,530 
We assumed approximately $24 million in finance lease obligations during 2024 and $1 million during each of 2023 and 2022.  In the ordinary 
course of business, our facilities routinely lease equipment pursuant to new lease arrangements that will likely result in future lease and rental expense in 
excess of amounts indicated above.
 
8) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Professional and General Liability, Workers’ Compensation Liability 
The vast majority of our subsidiaries are self-insured for professional and general liability exposure up to: (i) $20 million for professional liability 
and $3 million for general liability per occurrence in 2024, 2023, 2022 and 2021; (ii) $10 million and $3 million per occurrence, respectively, in 2020; (iii) 
$5 million and $3 million per occurrence, respectively, during 2019, 2018 and 2017, and; (iv) $10 million and $3 million per occurrence, respectively, prior 
to 2017.  For each of the years indicated above, for claims involving multiple plaintiffs, a single self-insured retention may apply, as stipulated in and 
subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable commercial policies, for claims qualifying as group related integrated occurrences and/or medical 
incidents.

 
116These subsidiaries are provided with several excess policies through commercial insurance carriers which provide for coverage in excess of the 
applicable per occurrence and aggregate self-insured retention or underlying policy limits up to approximately $175 million in 2024; $165 million in 2023; 
$162 million in 2022; $155 million in 2021 and $250 million during each of 2014 through 2020. In addition, from time to time based upon marketplace 
conditions, we may elect to purchase additional commercial coverage for certain of our facilities or businesses. Our behavioral health care facilities located 
in the U.K. have policies through a commercial insurance carrier located in the U.K. that provides for £20 million of professional liability coverage and £25 
million of general liability coverage. The commercial insurance limits indicated above for each policy year may have been reduced due to payment of 
covered claims or suits, subject to the policy terms and conditions.
As of December 31, 2024, the total net accrual for our self-insured professional and general liability claims was $487 million, of which $85 million 
was included in current liabilities. As of December 31, 2023, the total net accrual for our self-insured professional and general liability claims was $431 
million, of which $70 million was included in current liabilities.
As a result of unfavorable trends experienced during the last three years, our results of operations included pre-tax increases to our reserves for self-
insured professional and general liability claims amounting to approximately $79 million during 2024, $25 million during 2023 and $16 million during 
2022.  All professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and 
general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of 
losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts and jury verdicts, estimates of incurred but not reported claims based on historical 
experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance policies. All relevant information, including our own historical 
experience, applicable per occurrence and aggregate self-insured retentions, and limitations and exclusions pursuant to our commercial insurance policies, 
is used in estimating our expected liability for self-insured claims. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and 
general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Given our 
significant exposure to professional and general liability claims, there can be no assurance that a sharp increase in the number and/or severity of claims 
asserted against us, and/or reductions in the amount of commercial coverage available to us, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of 
operations.  In addition, our commercial insurance coverage for the period commencing in March, 2025, contains less favorable terms than previous years 
including coverage exclusions for incidents involving sexual molestation or abuse, higher premiums and potentially lower aggregate limitations. 
As of December 31, 2024, the total accrual for our workers’ compensation liability claims was $137 million, $58 million of which was included in 
current liabilities. As of December 31, 2023, the total accrual for our workers’ compensation liability claims was $130 million, $55 million of which was 
included in current liabilities. As a result of favorable trends experienced during 2023, included in our results of operations during 2023 was a pre-tax 
decrease to our reserves for self-insured workers' compensation liability claims of approximately $10 million. 
Although we are unable to predict whether or not our future financial statements will require updates to estimates for our prior year reserves for self-
insured general and professional and workers’ compensation claims, given the relatively unpredictable nature of these potential liabilities and the factors 
impacting these reserves, as discussed above, it is reasonably likely that our future financial results may include material adjustments to prior period 
reserves.
As disclosed below in Legal Proceedings:
• On March 28, 2024, a jury returned a verdict for compensatory damages of $60 million and punitive damages of $475 million and a related 
judgment was entered against The Pavilion Behavioral Health System (the “Pavilion”), an indirect subsidiary of the Company. In an order dated 
October 10, 2024, the trial court ordered a remittitur of punitive damages from $475 million to $120 million. The court denied the Pavilion’s 
request for reduction of compensatory damages. The Pavilion has filed an appeal of the remaining judgment and the Plaintiff has filed a cross 
appeal of the remittitur of punitive damages. Plaintiff has filed and served a Citation to Discover Assets ("Citation") on the Pavilion as well as 
Universal Health Services, Inc., and UHS of Delaware, Inc. ("UHS Entities") for the purported purpose of executing on the judgment during the 
pendency of the appeal. We are currently contesting the Citation as to the UHS Entities who were not parties to the litigation as well as the breadth 
and scope of the Citation issued to the Pavilion. 
• Cumberland Hospital for Children and Adolescents (“Cumberland”), an indirect subsidiary of the Company, is a defendant in multi-plaintiff 
lawsuits filed in the Circuit Court for Richmond, Virginia (the “Cumberland Litigation”), relating to allegations of inappropriate sexual contact 
during medical examinations by Dr. Daniel Davidow, an independent contractor and the former medical director for Cumberland. The Company 
and UHS of Delaware, Inc., our administrative services subsidiary (“UHS Delaware”), were also named as co-defendants in the Cumberland 
Litigation. Plaintiffs have asserted claims of negligence, assault and battery (against Dr. Davidow), false imprisonment, violations of the Virginia 
Consumer Protection Act (“VCPA”), and vicarious liability for Dr. Davidow’s conduct against Cumberland, the Company, and UHS Delaware. 
The Company and UHS Delaware were dismissed from the action during the trial, which occurred in September, 2024. On September 27, 2024, a 
jury entered a verdict finding Dr. Davidow and Cumberland liable and awarded these three plaintiffs combined compensatory damages of $60 
million for all liability theories, an additional combined $180 million in trebled 

 
117damages for violation of the VCPA, and an additional combined $120 million in punitive damages. Cumberland is evaluating all legal options and 
intends to challenge this verdict, including the amounts awarded in the verdict, in post-trial proceedings and on appeal. Based upon Virginia law, 
we expect that the punitive damage amount should be reduced to a combined maximum of $1.05 million as a matter of law. There are 
approximately 40 additional plaintiffs making similar allegations with claims pending in the Cumberland Litigation. We expect that the trials for 
the remaining plaintiffs, as well as any additional plaintiffs, will be scheduled at various times over the next several years and will continue to be 
tried in small groups.   
We are uncertain as to the ultimate financial exposure related to the Pavilion and Cumberland matters (which relate to occurrences in the 2020 
policy year) and we can make no assurances regarding timing or substance of their outcome, or the amount of damages that may be ultimately held 
recoverable after post-judgment proceedings and appeals. As of December 31, 2024, without reduction for any potential amounts related to the Pavilion and
Cumberland matters, the Company and its subsidiaries have aggregate insurance coverage of approximately $221 million remaining under commercial 
policies for matters applicable to the 2020 policy year (in excess of the applicable self-insured retention amounts of $10 million per single occurrence/$25 
million for multi-plaintiff matters for professional liability claims and $3 million per occurrence for general liability claims). In the event the resolution of 
the Pavilion and/or Cumberland matters exhausts all or a significant portion of the remaining commercial insurance coverage available to the Company and 
its subsidiaries related to other matters that occurred in 2020, or the Pavilion and Cumberland matters cause the posting of large bonds or other collateral 
during the appeal processes, our future results of operations and capital resources would be materially adversely impacted. 
Below is a schedule showing the changes in our general and professional liability and workers’ compensation reserves during the three years ended 
December 31, 2024 (amount in thousands):
 
  General and        
  Professional  Workers’     
  Liability   Compensation  Total  
Balance at January 1, 2022  $ 348,693  $ 114,985  $ 463,678 
Plus: Accrued insurance expense, net of commercial 
   premiums paid   111,763   62,960   174,723 
Less: Payments made in settlement of self-insured claims   (88,556)  (53,429)  (141,985)
Balance at January 1, 2023   371,900   124,516   496,416 
Plus: Accrued insurance expense, net of commercial 
   premiums paid   127,445   56,017   183,462 
Less: Payments made in settlement of self-insured claims   (67,860)  (50,229)  (118,089)
Balance at January 1, 2024   431,485   130,304   561,789 
Plus: Accrued insurance expense, net of commercial 
   premiums paid   184,110   70,284   254,394 
Less: Payments made in settlement of self-insured claims   (128,707)  (63,478)  (192,185)
Balance at December 31, 2024  $ 486,888  $ 137,110  $ 623,998 
Property Insurance
We have commercial property insurance policies for our properties, covering the period of June 1, 2024 to June 1, 2025, providing property and 
business interruption coverage for losses in excess of $15 million per occurrence or per location (as applicable based upon the event) up to a $1 billion 
annual policy limitation for certain catastrophic events or perils. These commercial policies provide for coverage of up to $250 million of annual aggregate 
coverage for losses resulting from windstorm damage. Losses resulting from named windstorms are subject to deductibles between 3% and 5% of the total 
insurable value of the property.  In addition, we have commercial property insurance policies covering catastrophic losses resulting from earthquake and 
flood damage, each subject to aggregated loss limits (as opposed to per occurrence losses). Commercially insured earthquake coverage for our facilities is 
subject to various deductibles and limitations including: (i) $100 million limitation for our facilities located in California, New Madrid Seismic Zone, 
Pacific Northwest Seismic Zone, Alaska and certain counties in Nevada; (ii) $100 million limitation for our facilities located in fault zones within the 
United States; (iii) $40 million limitation for our facilities located in Puerto Rico, and; (iv) $250 million limitation for many of our facilities located in 
other states. Our commercially insured flood coverage has a limit of $100 million annually. There is also a $10 million sublimit for one of our facilities 
located in Houston, Texas, and a $1 million sublimit for our facilities located in Puerto Rico. In addition, subject to the underlying policies' deductible 
provisions, our facilities located in California, New Madrid Seismic Zone, Pacific Northwest Seismic Zone, Alaska and certain counties in Nevada, have 
$50 million of excess commercial property insurance coverage for earthquake losses in excess of $100 million. Property insurance for our behavioral health 
facilities located in the U.K. are provided on an all risk basis up to a £1.5 billion policy limit, with coverage caps per location, that includes coverage for 
real and personal property as well as business interruption losses.
These commercial policies are subject to a deductible of: (i) $5 million per location for damage resulting from earthquake, wind, hail and flood, and; 
(ii) $5 million per occurrence for all other events.  For per location or per occurrence losses in excess of the applicable deductible, we are self-insured, 
through our wholly-owned captive insurance company, for up to $10 million of annual 

 
118aggregate losses. Should the $10 million self-insured annual aggregate limitation be exhausted during the policy year, we have commercial insurance 
coverage for the next $30 million of annual aggregate losses in excess of the applicable deductible. In the event the $30 million of commercial coverage is 
also exhausted, we are self-insured for all per location or per occurrence losses up to $25 million, including the $5 million deductible.
Commitment to Develop, Lease and Operate an Acute Care Hospital in Washington, D.C.
During 2020, we entered into various agreements with the District of Columbia (the “District”) related to the development, leasing and operation of 
an acute care hospital and certain other facilities/structures on land owned by the District (“District Facilities”).  The agreements contemplate that we will 
serve as manager for development and construction of the District Facilities on behalf of the District, with a projected aggregate cost of approximately $439 
million, approximately $344 million of which was incurred as of December 31, 2024, which will be entirely funded by the District. Construction of the 
District Facilities is expected to be completed in the Spring of 2025.
Upon completion of the District Facilities, we will lease the District Facilities for a nominal rental amount for a period of 75 years and are obligated 
to operate the District Facilities during the lease term. We have certain lease termination rights in connection with the District Facilities beginning on the 
tenth anniversary of the lease commencement date for various and decreasing amounts as provided for in the agreements. Additionally, any time after the 
10th anniversary of the lease term, we have a right to purchase the District Facilities for a price equal to the greater of fair market value of the District 
Facilities or the amount necessary to defease the bonds issued by the District to fund the construction of the District Facilities. The lease agreement also 
entitles the District to participation rent should certain specified earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization thresholds be achieved by the 
acute care hospital.
Additionally, we have committed to expend no less than $75 million (approximately $14 million of which has been incurred as of December 31, 
2024), over a projected 12-year period, in healthcare infrastructure including expenditures related to the District Facilities as well as other healthcare 
related expenditures in certain specified areas of Washington, D.C.  Pursuant to the agreements, the District is entitled to certain termination fees and other 
amounts as specified in the agreements in the event we, within certain specified periods of time, cease to operate the acute care hospital or there is a 
transfer of control of us or our subsidiary operating the hospital.
Information Technology Incident
In connection with an information technology security incident in late September, 2020, our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 
2022 were favorably impacted by approximately $13 million resulting from receipt of commercial cyber insurance proceeds.  
Other Contractual Commitments:
In addition to our long-term debt obligations as discussed in Note 4 - Long-Term Debt and our operating lease obligations as discussed in Note 7 - 
Lease Commitments, we have various other contractual commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2024 as follows: (i) other combined estimated future 
purchase obligations of $436 million related to a long-term contract with third-parties consisting primarily of certain revenue cycle data processing services 
for our acute care facilities ($52 million), expected future costs to be paid to a third-party vendor in connection with the ongoing operation of an electronic 
health records application and purchase implementation of a revenue cycle and other applications for our acute care facilities ($183 million), healthcare 
infrastructure in Washington D.C. in connection with various agreements with the District of Columbia ($61 million), development, implementation and 
operation of an enterprise resource planning application ($85 million), administrative software applications ($43 million) and other software applications 
($12 million); (ii) estimated construction commitment of $32 million representing our share of the construction cost of two behavioral health care facilities 
scheduled to be completed in 2025 that, subject to approval of certain regulatory conditions, we are required to build pursuant to joint-venture agreements 
with a third-party; (iii) combined estimated future payments of $159 million related to our non-contributory, defined benefit pension plan ($133 million 
consisting of estimated payments through 2080) and other retirement plan liabilities ($26 million), and; (iv) accrued and unpaid estimated claims expense 
incurred in connection with our commercial health insurers and self-insured employee benefit plans ($118 million).
Legal Proceedings
We operate in a highly regulated and litigious industry which subjects us to various claims and lawsuits in the ordinary course of business as well as 
regulatory proceedings and government investigations. These claims or suits include claims for damages for personal injuries, medical malpractice, 
commercial/contractual disputes, wrongful restriction of, or interference with, physicians’ staff privileges, and employment related claims. In addition, 
health care companies are subject to investigations and/or actions by various state and federal governmental agencies or those bringing claims on their 
behalf. Government action has increased with respect to investigations and/or allegations against healthcare providers concerning possible violations of 
fraud and abuse and false claims statutes as well as compliance with clinical and operational regulations. Currently, and from time to time, we and some of 
our facilities are subjected to inquiries in the form of subpoenas, Civil Investigative Demands, audits and other document requests from various federal and 
state agencies. These inquiries can lead to notices and/or actions including repayment obligations from state and federal 

 
119government agencies associated with potential non-compliance with laws and regulations. Further, the federal False Claims Act allows private individuals 
to bring lawsuits (qui tam actions) against healthcare providers that submit claims for payments to the government. Various states have also adopted similar 
statutes. When such a claim is filed, the government will investigate the matter and decide if they are going to intervene in the pending case. These qui tam 
lawsuits are placed under seal by the court to comply with the False Claims Act’s requirements. If the government chooses not to intervene, the private 
individual(s) can proceed independently on behalf of the government. Health care providers that are found to violate the False Claims Act may be subject 
to substantial monetary fines/penalties as well as face potential exclusion from participating in government health care programs or be required to comply 
with Corporate Integrity Agreements as a condition of a settlement of a False Claims Act matter. In September 2014, the Criminal Division of the 
Department of Justice (“DOJ”) announced that all qui tam cases will be shared with their Division to determine if a parallel criminal investigation should 
be opened. The DOJ has also announced an intention to pursue civil and criminal actions against individuals within a company as well as the corporate 
entity or entities. In addition, health care facilities are subject to monitoring by state and federal surveyors to ensure compliance with program Conditions 
of Participation. In the event a facility is found to be out of compliance with a Condition of Participation and unable to remedy the alleged deficiency(s), 
the facility faces termination from the Medicare and Medicaid programs or compliance with a System Improvement Agreement to remedy deficiencies and 
ensure compliance.
The laws and regulations governing the healthcare industry are complex covering, among other things, government healthcare participation 
requirements, licensure, certification and accreditation, privacy of patient information, reimbursement for patient services as well as fraud and abuse 
compliance. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and expanding. Further, the original Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as 
amended by the Health and Education Reconciliation Act, has added additional obligations on healthcare providers to report and refund overpayments by 
government healthcare programs and authorizes the suspension of Medicare and Medicaid payments “pending an investigation of a credible allegation of 
fraud.” We monitor our business and have developed an ethics and compliance program with respect to these complex laws, rules and regulations. 
Although we believe our policies, procedures and practices comply with government regulations, there is no assurance that we will not be faced with the 
sanctions referenced above which include fines, penalties and/or substantial damages, repayment obligations, payment suspensions, licensure revocation, 
and expulsion from government healthcare programs. Even if we were to ultimately prevail in any action brought against us or our facilities or in 
responding to any inquiry, such action or inquiry could have a material adverse effect on us.
Certain legal matters are described below:
Disproportionate Share Hospital Payment Matter
In late September, 2015, many hospitals in Pennsylvania, including certain of our behavioral health care hospitals located in the state, received 
letters from the Pennsylvania Department of Human Services (the “Department”) demanding repayment of allegedly excess Medicaid Disproportionate 
Share Hospital payments (“DSH”), primarily consisting of managed care payments characterized as DSH payments, for the federal fiscal year (“FFY”) 
2011 amounting to approximately $4 million in the aggregate. Since that time, certain of our behavioral health care hospitals in Pennsylvania have received 
similar requests for repayment for alleged DSH overpayments for FFYs 2012 through 2015. For FFY 2012, the claimed overpayment amounts to 
approximately $4 million. For FY 2013, FY 2014 and FY 2015 the initial claimed overpayments and attempted recoupment by the Department were 
approximately $7 million, $8 million and $7 million, respectively. The Department has agreed to a change in methodology which, upon confirmation of the 
underlying data being accepted by the Department, could reduce the initial claimed overpayments for FY 2013, FY 2014 and FY 2015 to approximately $2 
million, $2 million and $3 million, respectively. We filed administrative appeals for all of our facilities contesting the recoupment efforts for FFYs 2011 
through 2015 as we believe the Department’s calculation methodology is inaccurate and conflicts with applicable federal and state laws and regulations. 
The Department agreed to postpone the recoupment of the state’s share for FFY 2011 to 2013 until all hospital appeals are resolved but recouped the 
federal share. For FFY 2014 and FFY 2015, the Department initiated the recoupment of the alleged overpayments (both federal and state shares). Starting 
in FY 2016, the first full fiscal year after the January 1, 2015 effective date of Medicaid expansion in Pennsylvania, the Department no longer characterized 
managed care payments received by the hospitals as DSH payments. While the administrative appeals on the disputed DSH payments were pending, we 
were in settlement discussions with the Department. As a part of these discussions, we presented certain calculation errors that we believed, if corrected, 
could materially reduce the alleged overpayments. Recently, we finalized a settlement agreement with the Department, received the funds representing the 
agreed upon portion of amounts previously recouped, and the matter has been concluded.       
Rachel Capriglione, as natural mother and Next Friend of A.T., a minor, Plaintiff, v. The Pavilion Foundation d/b/a The Pavilion Behavioral Health 
System
The Pavilion Behavioral Health System (the “Pavilion”), an indirect subsidiary of the Company, is the sole defendant in a lawsuit filed in 
Champaign County, Illinois, relating to the sexual assault of one minor patient by another minor patient in 2020. Plaintiff asserted claims of negligence and 
misrepresentation. The Pavilion denied any liability.
The case went to trial in March of 2024. On March 28, 2024, a jury rejected the misrepresentation claim, returned a verdict for ordinary negligence, 
and awarded compensatory damages of $60 million and punitive damages of $475 million. Based on a search of verdicts in comparable cases, the 
magnitude of this verdict was unexpected and is unprecedented for a single-plaintiff injury case of 

 
120this type in Champaign County, Illinois. The Pavilion filed post-trial motions, among other items, contesting the excessiveness of the damage awards.
In an order dated October 10, 2024, the trial court ordered a remittitur of punitive damages from $475 million to $120 million. The court denied the 
Pavilion’s request for reduction of compensatory damages. The Pavilion has filed an appeal of the remaining judgment and the Plaintiff has filed a cross 
appeal of the remittitur of punitive damages. Plaintiff has filed and served a Citation to Discover Assets ("Citation") on the Pavilion as well as Universal 
Health Services, Inc., and UHS of Delaware, Inc. ("UHS Entities") for the purported purpose of executing on the judgment during the pendency of the 
appeal. We are currently contesting the Citation as to the UHS Entities who were not parties to the litigation as well as the breadth and scope of the Citation 
issued to the Pavilion. 
Although we can make no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome of this matter, or what damages will ultimately be awarded, its final resolution 
could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 
K.E.E., et al., Plaintiffs v. Cumberland Hospital, LLC d/b/a Cumberland Hospital for Children and Adolescents, et al. (and related lawsuits)
Cumberland Hospital for Children and Adolescents (“Cumberland”), an indirect subsidiary of the Company, is a defendant in multi-plaintiff 
lawsuits filed in the Circuit Court for Richmond, Virginia (the “Cumberland Litigation”), relating to allegations of inappropriate sexual contact during 
medical examinations by Dr. Daniel Davidow, an independent contractor and the former medical director for Cumberland. The Company and UHS of 
Delaware, Inc., our administrative services subsidiary (“UHS Delaware”), were also named as co-defendants in the Cumberland Litigation. Plaintiffs have 
asserted claims of negligence, assault and battery (against Dr. Davidow), false imprisonment, violations of the Virginia Consumer Protection Act 
(“VCPA”), and vicarious liability for Dr. Davidow’s conduct against Cumberland, the Company, and UHS Delaware. All defendants have denied liability.
The claims asserted by three of the plaintiffs in the Cumberland Litigation were consolidated for trial in September of 2024.  The Company and 
UHS Delaware were dismissed from the action during trial. On September 27, 2024, a jury entered a verdict finding Dr. Davidow and Cumberland liable 
and awarded these three plaintiffs combined compensatory damages of $60 million for all liability theories, an additional combined $180 million in trebled 
damages for violation of the VCPA, and an additional combined $120 million in punitive damages. Cumberland filed post-trial motions challenging this 
verdict and briefing is currently underway. Based upon Virginia law, we expect that the punitive damage amount should be reduced to a combined 
maximum of $1.05 million as a matter of law.    
There are approximately 40 additional plaintiffs making similar allegations with claims pending in the Cumberland Litigation. We expect that the 
trials for the remaining plaintiffs, as well as any additional plaintiffs, will be scheduled at various times over the next several years and will continue to be 
tried in small groups.  
Although we can make no assurances regarding the ultimate outcomes of the various claims made in connection with the Cumberland Litigation, or 
what damages will ultimately be awarded, the final resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Other Matters
Various other suits, claims and investigations, including government subpoenas, arising against, or issued to, us are pending and additional such 
matters may arise in the future. Management will consider additional disclosure from time to time to the extent it believes such matters may be or become 
material. The outcome of any current or future litigation or governmental or internal investigations, including the matters described above, cannot be 
accurately predicted, nor can we predict any resulting penalties, fines or other sanctions that may be imposed at the discretion of federal or state regulatory 
authorities. We record accruals for such contingencies to the extent that we conclude it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the 
loss can be reasonably estimated. No estimate of the possible loss or range of loss in excess of amounts accrued, if any, can be made at this time regarding 
the matters described above or that are otherwise pending because the inherently unpredictable nature of legal proceedings may be exacerbated by various 
factors, including, but not limited to: (i) the damages sought in the proceedings are unsubstantiated or indeterminate; (ii) discovery is not complete; (iii) the 
matter  is in its early stages; (iv) the matters present legal uncertainties; (v) there are significant facts in dispute; (vi) there are a large number of parties, or; 
(vii) there is a wide range of potential outcomes. It is possible that the outcome of these matters could have a material adverse impact on our future results 
of operations, financial position, cash flows and, potentially, our reputation.
 
9) RELATIONSHIP WITH UNIVERSAL HEALTH REALTY INCOME TRUST AND OTHER RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Relationship with Universal Health Realty Income Trust:
At December 31, 2024, we held approximately 5.7% of the outstanding shares of Universal Health Realty Income Trust (the “Trust”). We serve as 
Advisor to the Trust under an annually renewable advisory agreement, which is scheduled to expire on December 31st of each year, pursuant to the terms of 
which we conduct the Trust’s day-to-day affairs, provide administrative services 

 
121and present investment opportunities. The advisory agreement was renewed by the Trust for 2025 at the same rate in place for 2024, 2023 and 2022, 
providing for an advisory computation at 0.70% of the Trust’s average invested real estate assets. We earned an advisory fee from the Trust, which is 
included in net revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of income, of approximately $5.5 million during 2024, $5.3 million during 2023 and 
$5.1 million during 2022.
In addition, certain of our officers and directors are also officers and/or directors of the Trust. Management believes that it has the ability to exercise 
significant influence over the Trust, therefore we account for our investment in the Trust using the equity method of accounting.
Our pre-tax share of income from the Trust was $1.1 million during 2024, $874,000 during 2023 and $1.2 million during 2022, which are included 
in other income (expense), net, on the accompanying consolidated statements of income for each year. We received dividends from the Trust amounting to 
$2.3 million during each of 2024 and 2023 and $2.2 million during 2022.  The carrying value of our investment in the Trust was $5.8 million and $7.0 
million at December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and is included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The market value of 
our investment in the Trust was $29.3 million at December 31, 2024 and $34.1 million at December 31, 2023, based on the closing price of the Trust’s 
stock on the respective dates.
The Trust commenced operations in 1986 by purchasing certain hospital properties from us and immediately leasing the properties back to our 
respective subsidiaries. The base rents are paid monthly and the bonus rents, which effective as of January 1, 2022 are applicable only to McAllen Medical 
Center, are computed and paid on a quarterly basis, based upon a computation that compares current quarter revenue to a corresponding quarter in the base 
year. The leases with those subsidiaries are unconditionally guaranteed by us and are cross-defaulted with one another.
On December 31, 2021, we entered into an asset purchase and sale agreement with the Trust, which was amended during the first quarter of 2022, 
pursuant to the terms of which: (i) a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours purchased from the Trust the real estate assets of the Inland Valley Campus of 
Southwest Healthcare System located in Wildomar, California, at its fair market value; (ii)  two wholly-owned subsidiaries of ours transferred to the Trust, 
at their respective fair-market values, the real estate assets of Aiken Regional Medical Center (“Aiken”), located in Aiken, South Carolina (which includes 
a 211-bed acute care hospital and a 62-bed behavioral health facility), and Canyon Creek Behavioral Health (“Canyon Creek”), located in Temple, Texas, 
and; (iii) we received approximately $4.1 million in cash from the Trust.
As a result of the purchase options within the lease agreements for Aiken and Canyon Creek, the asset purchase and sale transaction is accounted for 
as a failed sale leaseback in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We have accounted for the asset exchange and substitution transaction with the Trust as a 
financing arrangement and, since we did not derecognize the real property related to Aiken and Canyon Creek, we will continue to depreciate the assets. 
Our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 reflects a financial liability of $73.8 million and $77.5 million, 
respectively, which is included in debt, for the fair value of real estate assets that we exchanged as part of the transaction. Our monthly lease payments 
payable to the Trust will be recorded to interest expense and as a reduction to the outstanding financial liability. The amount allocated to interest expense is 
determined using our incremental borrowing rate and is based on the outstanding financial liability.
The aggregate rent payable to the Trust in connection with the leases on McAllen Medical Center, Wellington Regional Medical Center, Aiken 
Regional Medical Center and Canyon Creek Behavioral Health was approximately $21.2 million during 2024 and $20.6 million during 2023. 
Pursuant to the Master Leases by certain subsidiaries of ours and the Trust as described in the table below, dated 1986 and 2021 (“the Master 
Leases”) which govern the leases of McAllen Medical Center and Wellington Regional Medical Center (each of which is governed by the Master Lease 
dated 1986), and Aiken Regional Medical Center and Canyon Creek Behavioral Health (each of which is governed by the Master Lease dated 2021), we 
have the option to renew the leases at the lease terms described above and below by providing notice to the Trust at least 90 days prior to the termination of 
the then current term. We also have the right to purchase the respective leased hospitals at their appraised fair market value upon any of the following: (i) at 
the end of the lease terms or any renewal terms; (ii) upon one month’s notice should a change of control of the Trust occur, or; (iii) within the time period 
as specified in the lease in the event that we provide notice to the Trust of our intent to offer a substitution property/properties in exchange for one (or 
more) of the hospital properties leased from the Trust should we be unable to reach an agreement with the Trust on the properties to be substituted.  In 
addition, we have rights of first refusal to: (i) purchase the respective leased facilities during and for a specified period after the lease terms at the same 
price, terms and conditions of any third-party offer, or; (ii) renew the lease on the respective leased facility at the end of, and for a specified period after, the 
lease term at the same terms and conditions pursuant to any third-party offer.
In addition, we are the managing, majority member in a joint venture with an unrelated third-party that operates Clive Behavioral Health, a 100-bed 
behavioral health care facility located in Clive, Iowa. The real property of this facility, which was completed and opened in late 2020, is also leased from 
the Trust (annual rental of approximately $2.8 million, $2.7 million and $2.6 million during 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively) pursuant to the lease terms 
as provided in the table below. In connection with the lease on this facility, the joint venture has the right to purchase the leased facility from the Trust at its 
appraised fair market value 

 
122upon either of the following: (i) by providing notice at least 270 days prior to the end of the lease terms or any renewal terms, or; (ii) upon 30 days' notice 
anytime within 12 months of a change of control of the Trust (UHS also has this right should the joint venture decline to exercise its purchase right). 
Additionally, the joint venture has rights of first offer to purchase the facility prior to any third-party sale.
The table below provides certain details for each of the hospitals leased from the Trust as of January 1, 2025:
 
Hospital Name   Annual
Minimum
Rent   End of Lease Term Renewal
Term
(years)   
McAllen Medical Center   $ 5,485,000  December, 2026  5 (a)
Wellington Regional Medical Center   $ 6,805,000  December, 2026  5 (b)
Aiken Regional Medical Center/Aurora Pavilion Behavioral Health 
Services   $ 4,164,000  December, 2033  35 (c)
Canyon Creek Behavioral Health   $ 1,882,000  December, 2033  35 (c)
Clive Behavioral Health   $ 2,851,000  December, 2040  50 (d)
 
(a) We have one 5-year renewal option at existing lease rates (through 2031).
(b) We have one 5-year renewal option at fair market value lease rates (through 2031). On each January 1st through 2026, the annual rent will increase 
by 2.50% on a cumulative and compounded basis. 
(c) We have seven 5-year renewal options at fair market value lease rates (2034 through 2068).  On each January 1st through 2033, the annual rent will 
increase by 2.25% on a cumulative and compounded basis. 
(d) This facility is operated by a joint venture in which we are the managing, majority member and an unrelated third-party holds a minority ownership 
interest. The joint venture has three, 10-year renewal options at computed lease rates as stipulated in the lease (2041 through 2070) and two 
additional, 10-year renewal options at fair market value lease rates (2071 through 2090). In each January through 2040 (and potentially through 
2070 if three, 10-year renewal options are exercised), the annual rental will increase by 2.75% on a cumulative and compounded basis.   
In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are tenants in several medical office buildings (“MOBs”) and two free-standing emergency departments 
("FED") owned by the Trust or by limited liability companies in which the Trust holds 95% to 100% of the ownership interest.  In connection with these 
two FEDs, in October, 2024, our subsidiaries exercised their 5-year renewal options on the facilities which are located in Weslaco and Mission, Texas. The 
renewal option covers the period of February 1, 2025 through January 31, 2030 (the current lease terms were scheduled to expire on January 31, 2025; with 
aggregate annual lease rates of approximately $1.07 million). Pursuant to terms of the leases, and consistent with the terms of the leases currently in effect 
for each property, the lease rates are scheduled to increase 2% per year through the end of the renewed lease terms. Our subsidiaries have four, 5-year 
renewal options remaining on each of these FEDs, with the first three renewal options (covering the years 2030 through 2044) providing for 2% annual 
increases to the lease rates, and the remaining two, 5-year renewal options (covering the years 2045 through 2054) providing for lease rates at the then fair 
market value. These leases are cross-defaulted with one another and our subsidiaries have the option to purchase the leased properties upon the expiration 
of each five-year extended term at the fair market value at that time.            
During the third quarter of 2023, the Trust acquired the McAllen Doctor's Center, a 79,500 rentable square feet medical office building located in 
McAllen, Texas.  A master lease was executed between a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours and the Trust, pursuant to the terms of which our subsidiary will 
master lease 100% of the rentable square feet of the MOB at an initial minimum rent of $624,000 annually.  The master lease commenced during August, 
2023 and is scheduled to expire in twelve years from that date.
During the first quarter of 2023, the Trust substantially completed construction on a new 86,000 rentable square foot multi-tenant MOB that is 
located on the campus of Northern Nevada Sierra Medical Center in Reno, Nevada. Northern Nevada Sierra Medical Center, a 170-bed newly constructed 
acute care hospital owned and operated by a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours, was completed and opened in April, 2022. In connection with this MOB, a 
ten-year master flex lease was executed between a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours and the Trust (scheduled to expire in March, 2033), pursuant to the 
terms of which our subsidiary initially agreed to master lease up to approximately 68% of the rentable square feet of the MOB. The master flex lease has 
been reduced since inception as certain conditions have been met. A ground lease for this facility commenced during 2023 and is scheduled to expire in 
2098.
Other Related Party Transactions:
In December, 2010, our Board of Directors approved the Company’s entering into supplemental life insurance plans and agreements on the lives of 
Alan B. Miller (our Executive Chairman of the Board) and his wife. As a result of these agreements, as amended in October, 2016, based on actuarial tables 
and other assumptions, during the life expectancies of the insureds, we would pay approximately $28 million in premiums, and certain trusts owned by our 
Executive Chairman of the Board, would pay approximately $9 million in premiums. Based on the projected premiums mentioned above, and assuming the 
policies remain in effect until the death of the insureds, we will be entitled to receive death benefit proceeds of no less than approximately $37 million 
representing the $28

 
123 million of aggregate premiums paid by us as well as the $9 million of aggregate premiums paid by the trusts. In connection with these policies, we paid 
approximately $1.0 million, net, in premium payments during 2024, 2023 and 2022.
In August, 2015, Marc D. Miller, our President and Chief Executive Officer and member of our Board of Directors, was appointed to the Board of 
Directors of Premier, Inc. (“Premier”), a healthcare performance improvement alliance.  During 2013, we entered into a new group purchasing organization 
agreement (“GPO”) with Premier. In conjunction with the GPO agreement, we acquired a minority interest in Premier for a nominal amount. During the 
fourth quarter of 2013, in connection with the completion of an initial public offering of the stock of Premier, we received cash proceeds for the sale of a 
portion of our ownership interest in the GPO. Also in connection with this GPO agreement, we received shares of restricted stock of Premier which vested 
ratably over a seven-year period (2014 through 2020), contingent upon our continued participation and minority ownership interest in the GPO.  During the 
third quarter of 2020, we entered into an agreement with Premier pursuant to the terms of which, among other things, our ownership interest in Premier was 
converted into shares of Class A Common Stock of Premier.  We have elected to retain a portion of the previously vested shares of Premier, the market 
value of which is included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheets.  Based upon the closing price of Premier’s stock on each respective date, the 
market value of our shares of Premier was $47 million as of December 31, 2024 and $50 million as of December 31, 2023.  The $3 million decrease in 
market value of our vested Premier shares since December 31, 2023 was recorded as an unrealized loss and included in “Other (income) expense, net” in 
our consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2024.  A $28 million decrease in the market value of our vested Premier shares 
during 2023 was recorded as an unrealized loss and included in “Other (income) expense, net” in our consolidated statements of income for the year ended 
December 31, 2023.  A $14 million decrease in the market value of our vested Premier shares during 2022 was recorded as an unrealized loss and included 
in “Other (income) expense, net” in our consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2022.
 Additionally, we received cash dividends from Premier amounting to $1.9 million during  each of 2024 and 2023 and $1.8 million during 2022, 
which are included in “Other (income) expense, net” in our consolidated statements of income.     
A member of our Board of Directors and member of the Executive Committee and Finance Committee is Of Counsel for Norton Rose Fulbright US 
LLP, a law firm engaged by us for a variety of legal services.  The Board member and his law firm also provide personal legal services to our Executive 
Chairman and he acts as trustee of certain trusts for the benefit of our Executive Chairman and his family. 
10) REVENUE RECOGNITION
We recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to 
be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Our estimate for amounts not expected to be collected based on historical experience will continue to be 
recognized as a reduction to net revenue. However, subsequent changes in estimate of collectability due to a change in the financial status of a payer, for 
example a bankruptcy, will be recognized as bad debt expense in operating charges.
The performance obligation is separately identifiable from other promises in the customer contract. As the performance obligations are met (i.e.: 
room, board, ancillary services, level of care), revenue is recognized based upon allocated transaction price. The transaction price is allocated to separate 
performance obligations based upon the relative standalone selling price. In instances where we determine there are multiple performance obligations 
across multiple months, the transaction price will be allocated by applying an estimated implicit and explicit rate to gross charges based on the separate 
performance obligations.
In assessing collectability, we have elected the portfolio approach.  This portfolio approach is being used as we have large volume of similar 
contracts with similar classes of customers. We reasonably expect that the effect of applying a portfolio approach to a group of contracts would not differ 
materially from considering each contract separately.  Management’s judgment to group the contracts by portfolio is based on the payment behavior 
expected in each portfolio category.  As a result, aggregating all of the contracts (which are at the patient level) by the particular payer or group of payers, 
will result in the recognition of the same amount of revenue as applying the analysis at the individual patient level.

 
124We group our revenues into categories based on payment behaviors.  Each component has its own reimbursement structure which allows us to 
disaggregate the revenue into categories that share the nature and timing of payments.  The other patient revenue consists primarily of self-pay, 
government-funded non-Medicaid, and other.
The following table disaggregates our revenue by major source for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands):
 For the year ended December 31, 2024  
 Acute Care   Behavioral Health   Other   Total  
Medicare $ 1,361,167   15% $ 307,958   4%    $ 1,669,125   11%
Managed Medicare  1,478,331   17%  405,574   6%     1,883,905   12%
Medicaid  1,106,728   12%  1,145,302   17%     2,252,030   14%
Managed Medicaid  619,262   7%  1,684,676   24%     2,303,938   15%
Managed Care (HMO and PPOs)  2,861,956   32%  1,634,446   24%     4,496,402   28%
UK Revenue  0  0%  880,148   13%     880,148   6%
Other patient revenue and adjustments, net  498,749   6%  614,059   9%     1,112,808   7%
Other non-patient revenue  996,134   11%  222,888   3%  10,557    1,229,579   8%
Total Net Revenue $ 8,922,327   100% $ 6,895,051   100% $ 10,557   $15,827,935   100%
                  
 For the year ended December 31, 2023  
 Acute Care   Behavioral Health   Other   Total  
Medicare $ 1,297,084   16% $ 310,321   5%    $ 1,607,405   11%
Managed Medicare  1,368,284   17%  345,771   6%     1,714,055   12%
Medicaid  638,986   8%  893,918   14%     1,532,904   11%
Managed Medicaid  716,380   9%  1,574,281   25%     2,290,661   16%
Managed Care (HMO and PPOs)  2,658,890   33%  1,552,304   25%     4,211,194   29%
UK Revenue  0  0%  761,124   12%     761,124   5%
Other patient revenue and adjustments, net  452,781   6%  528,422   9%     981,203   7%
Other non-patient revenue  948,997   12%  224,780   4%  9,653    1,183,430   8%
Total Net Revenue $ 8,081,402   100% $ 6,190,921   100% $ 9,653   $14,281,976   100%
                  
 For the year ended December 31, 2022  
 Acute Care   Behavioral Health   Other   Total  
Medicare $ 1,289,425   17% $ 326,337   6%    $ 1,615,762   12%
Managed Medicare  1,274,719   17%  285,870   5%     1,560,589   12%
Medicaid  719,870   9%  792,526   14%     1,512,396   11%
Managed Medicaid  757,488   10%  1,449,367   25%     2,206,855   16%
Managed Care (HMO and PPOs)  2,536,818   33%  1,476,136   26%     4,012,954   30%
UK Revenue  0  0%  684,594   12%     684,594   5%
Other patient revenue and adjustments, net  261,879   3%  483,763   8%     745,642   6%
Other non-patient revenue  806,550   11%  231,165   4%  22,863    1,060,578   8%
Total Net Revenue $ 7,646,749   100% $ 5,729,758   100% $ 22,863   $13,399,370   100%
 
11) PENSION PLAN
We maintain contributory and non-contributory retirement plans for eligible employees. Our contributions to the contributory plan amounted to 
$82.1 million, $73.9 million and $72.0 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The non-contributory plan is a defined benefit pension plan which 
covers employees of one of our subsidiaries. The benefits are based on years of service and the employee’s highest compensation for any five years of 
employment. Our funding policy is to contribute annually at least the minimum amount that should be funded in accordance with the provisions of ERISA.
For defined benefit pension plans, the benefit obligation is the “projected benefit obligation”, the actuarial present value, as of December 31 
measurement date, of all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to employee service rendered to that date.  The amount of benefit to be paid 
depends on a number of future events incorporated into the pension benefit formula, including estimates of the average life of employees/survivors and 
average years of service rendered.  It is measured based on assumptions 

 
125concerning future interest rates and future compensation levels. The following table shows the reconciliation of the defined benefit pension plan as of 
December 31, 2024 and 2023:
 
  2024   2023  
  (000s)  
Change in plan assets:       
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year  $ 98,415  $ 96,627 
Actual return (loss) on plan assets   1,865   8,779 
Benefits paid   (6,289)  (6,417)
Administrative expenses   (576)  (574)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year  $ 93,415  $ 98,415 
Change in benefit obligation:       
Benefit obligation at beginning of year  $ 85,625  $ 87,277 
Service cost   616   803 
Interest cost   3,874   4,118 
Benefits paid   (6,289)  (6,417)
Actuarial (gain) loss   (5,404)  (156)
Benefit obligation at end of year  $ 78,422  $ 85,625 
Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet:       
Other noncurrent assets  $ 14,993  $ 12,790 
Total amounts recognized at end of year  $ 14,993  $ 12,790 
 
  2024   2023   2022  
  (000s)  
Components of net periodic cost (benefit)          
Service cost  $ 616  $ 803  $ 607 
Interest cost   3,874   4,118   2,836 
Expected return on plan assets   (4,277)  (4,195)  (4,335)
Net periodic cost  $ 213  $ 726  $ (892)
 
  2024  2023
Measurement Dates     
Benefit obligations  12/31/2024 12/31/2023
Fair value of plan assets  12/31/2024 12/31/2023
 
  2024   2023  
Weighted average assumptions as of December 31       
Discount rate   5.36%  4.71%
Rate of compensation increase   4.00%  4.00%
 
  2024   2023   2022  
Weighted-average assumptions for net periodic benefit
   cost calculations          
Discount rate   4.71%  4.91%  2.52%
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets   4.50%  4.50%  3.50%
Rate of compensation increase   4.00%  4.00%  4.00%
 
The “accumulated benefit obligation” for our pension plan represents the actuarial present value of benefits based on employee service and 
compensation as of a certain date and does not include an assumption about future compensation levels.  The accumulated benefit obligation for our plan 
was $78.4 million and $85.6 million as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The fair value of plan assets exceeded the accumulated benefit 
obligation by $15.0 million and $12.8 million as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
We estimate that there will be no net loss or prior service cost amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income during 2025.
The market values of our pension plan assets at December 31, 2024 and 2023, reported using net asset value as a practical expedient, by asset 
category are as follows (in thousands):
 

 
126  2024   2023  
Equities:       
U.S. Large Cap  $ 5,131  $ 5,423 
U.S. Mid Cap   1,351   1,480 
U.S. Small Cap   1,259   1,491 
International Developed   3,746   3,943 
Emerging Markets   2,291   2,540 
Fixed income:       
Core Fixed Income   28,175   17,492 
Long Duration Fixed Income   50,674   65,289 
Cash/Currency:       
Cash Equivalents   788   757 
Total market value  $ 93,415  $ 98,415 
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption, we considered the historical returns and the future expectations for 
returns for each asset class, as well as the target asset allocation of the pension portfolio.
The following table shows expected benefit payments for the years 2025 through 2034 for our defined pension plan. There will be benefit payments 
under this plan beyond 2034.
 
Estimated Future Benefit Payments (000s)    
2025  $ 6,675 
2026   6,664 
2027   6,635 
2028   6,575 
2029   6,492 
2030-2034   30,648 
Total  $ 63,689 
 
  2024   2023  
Plan Assets       
Asset Category       
Equity securities   15%  15%
Fixed income securities   84%  84%
Other   1%  1%
Total   100%  100%
 
Investment Policy, Guidelines and Objectives have been established for the defined benefit pension plan. The investment policy is in keeping with 
the fiduciary requirements under existing federal laws and managed in accordance with the Prudent Investor Rule. Total portfolio risk is regularly evaluated 
and compared to that of the plan’s policy target allocation and judged on a relative basis over a market cycle. The following asset allocation policy and 
ranges have been established in accordance with the overall risk and return objectives of the portfolio:
 
  As of 12/31/2024  Permitted
Range
Total Equity   15% 10-30%
Total Fixed Income   84% 70-90%
Other   1% 0-10%
In accordance with the investment policy, the portfolio will invest in high quality, large and small capitalization companies traded on national 
exchanges, and investment grade securities. The investment managers will not write or buy options for speculative purposes; securities may not be 
margined or sold short. The manager may employ futures or options for the purpose of hedging exposure, and will not purchase unregistered sectors, 
private placements, partnerships or commodities.
 
12) SEGMENT REPORTING
We operate in two reportable segments: Acute Care Hospital Services and Behavioral Health Care Services.  Our chief operating decision making 
(“CODM”) group is comprised of our President and Chief Executive Officer and each of our respective division Presidents for our Acute Care Hospital 
Services and Behavioral Health Care Services.  The operating segments are managed separately because each operating segment represents a business unit 
that offers different types of healthcare services or operates in different healthcare environments. The primary profitability measurement utilized by the 
President and Chief Executive Officer as 

 
127well as the Presidents of each operating segment is segment income before income taxes. Segment income before income taxes is utilized by the CODM 
group during the annual budgeting process and during their reviews of our monthly operating results to monitor each segment’s operating results as 
compared to prior periods, and the respective operating budgets. 
The expenses included in our non-segment operating expenses below include centralized services including, but not limited to, information 
technology, purchasing, reimbursement, accounting and finance, taxation, legal, advertising and design and construction. The accounting policies of the 
operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies included in Note 1-Business and Summary of 
Significant Accounting Policies. We do not present asset information for our segments as this information is not used to allocate resources.
 
2024  Acute Care
Hospital
Services   Behavioral
Health Care
Services (c)   Total  
  (amounts in thousands)  
Net revenue from reportable segments  $ 8,922,327  $ 6,895,051  $ 15,817,378 
          
Reconciliation of Net Revenue          
Non-segment revenue         10,557 
Total Net Revenue        $ 15,827,935 
          
Salaries, wages and benefits  $ 3,511,359  $ 3,603,123    
Other segment item operating expenses (a)   4,202,491   1,724,763    
Depreciation and amortization expense   368,096   206,362    
Interest (income) expense, net   6,339   4,027    
Other (income) expense, net   (1,305)  (3,547)   
Reportable segment income before income taxes  $ 835,347  $ 1,360,323  $ 2,195,670 
          
Reconciliation of non-segment revenue/expenses to consolidated income 
before income taxes          
Non-segment revenue         10,557 
Non-segment operating expenses (b)         529,927 
Non-segment interest expense, net         175,743 
Non-segment other (income) expense, net         2,621 
Income before income taxes        $ 1,497,936 
 
 
 

 
1282023  Acute Care
Hospital
Services   Behavioral
Health Care
Services (c)   Total  
  (amounts in thousands)  
Net revenue from reportable segments  $ 8,081,402  $ 6,190,921  $ 14,272,323 
          
Reconciliation of Net Revenue          
Non-segment revenue         9,653 
Total Net Revenue        $ 14,281,976 
          
Salaries, wages and benefits  $ 3,406,060  $ 3,353,008    
Other segment item operating expenses (a)   3,762,066   1,564,649    
Depreciation and amortization expense   367,644   189,297    
Interest (income) expense, net   (2,501)  4,558    
Other (income) expense, net   7,788   (4,271)   
Reportable segment income before income taxes  $ 540,345  $ 1,083,680  $ 1,624,025 
          
Reconciliation of non-segment revenue/expenses to consolidated income 
before income taxes          
Non-segment revenue         9,653 
Non-segment operating expenses (b)         463,871 
Non-segment interest expense, net         204,617 
Non-segment other (income) expense, net         24,764 
Income before income taxes        $ 940,426 
 
 
 
2022  Acute Care
Hospital
Services (d)   Behavioral
Health Care
Services (c)   Total  
  (amounts in thousands)  
Net revenue from reportable segments  $ 7,646,749  $ 5,729,758  $ 13,376,507 
          
Reconciliation of Net Revenue          
Non-segment revenue         22,863 
Total Net Revenue        $ 13,399,370 
          
Salaries, wages and benefits  $ 3,332,535  $ 3,107,216    
Other segment item operating expenses (a)   3,497,538   1,457,217    
Depreciation and amortization expense   383,115   186,555    
Interest (income) expense, net   1,109   5,323    
Other (income) expense, net   2,788   (6,843)   
Reportable segment income before income taxes  $ 429,664  $ 980,290  $ 1,409,954 
          
Reconciliation of non-segment revenue/expenses to consolidated income 
before income taxes          
Non-segment revenue         22,863 
Non-segment operating expenses (b)         431,639 
Non-segment interest expense, net         120,457 
Non-segment other (income) expense, net         14,461 
Income before income taxes        $ 866,260 
 

 
129 
(a) Other segment operating expenses for each period includes other operating expenses, supplies expense and lease and rental expense.
(b) Non-segment operating expenses for each period includes salaries, wages and benefits, other operating expenses, supplies expense and lease and rental  
expense.
(c) Includes net revenues generated from our behavioral health care facilities located in the U.K. amounting to approximately $ 880 million in 2024, $ 761 
million in 2023 and $ 685 million in 2022.
(d) Included in our 2022 acute care hospital services reportable segment income before income taxes is a pre-tax $ 58 million provision for asset impairment  
charge to reduce the carrying value of real property assets.

 
130SCHEDULE II—VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
(amounts in thousands)
 
  Balance at   Charges to   Balance  
  beginning   costs and   at end  
Valuation Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets:  of period   expenses   of period  
Year ended December 31, 2024  $ 72,667  $ 10,023  $ 82,690 
Year ended December 31, 2023  $ 63,325  $ 9,342  $ 72,667 
Year ended December 31, 2022  $ 62,356  $ 969  $ 63,325 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
November 25, 2024
 
Steve Filton  
Executive Vice President & CFO
UHS of Delaware, Inc.
367 South Gulph Road  
King of Prussia, PA 19406
 
 
Dear Steve:
 
 The Board of Trustees of Universal Health Realty Income Trust, at today’s meeting, authorized the renewal of the current  
Advisory Agreement between Universal Health Realty Income Trust and UHS of Delaware, Inc. (“Agreement”) upon the same  
terms and conditions.  
 
This letter constitutes Universal Health Realty Income Trust’s offer to renew the Agreement, through December 31,  
2025, upon the same terms and conditions.  Please acknowledge UHS of Delaware’s acceptance of this offer by signing in the  
space provided below and returning one copy of this letter to me.  Thank you.
 
 
Sincerely,
 
 
/s/ Cheryl K. Ramagano
Cheryl K. Ramagano
Senior Vice President, Operations,
Treasurer and Secretary
 
Agreed and Accepted :
  
UHS OF DELAWARE, INC.
 
 
By:  /s/ Steve Filton
Steve Filton
Executive Vice President and CFO
 
 
CC: Charles Boyle

 
 1Exhibit 19
Inside Information and Trading of Company Stock
Effective as of February 12, 2025  
I. Purpose of this Policy
In the course of performing your duties for Universal Health Services, Inc. (" UHS "), you may from time to  
time receive or become aware of material non-public information about UHS and its subsidiaries  
(collectively, the " Company ") or other companies that do business with the Company. This Insider  
Trading Policy (the " Policy ") furnishes guidelines concerning information that may be "material" and  
"non-public" and your legal obligations and obligations to the Company relating to the use or disclosure  
of material non-public information regarding the Company or such other companies.  It is also Company  
policy to comply with applicable securities laws concerning trading in Company’s securities on the  
Company’s behalf.
The Company has adopted this Policy to promote compliance with applicable securities laws, known as  
"insider trading" laws, which prohibit persons who receive or become aware of material non-public  
information about the Company (or other companies that do business with the Company) from trading in  
the Company's (or such other company's) securities or providing material non-public information to  
others who may trade in the Company's (or such other company's) securities on the basis of that  
information.
Insider trading laws can impose legal liability not only on individuals who fail to comply with these laws,  
but also to the Company as the employer of individuals who violate these laws. Accordingly, the  
Company has adopted this Policy not only to guide the individuals associated with the Company who  
are covered by the Policy, but also to protect the Company from legal liability and promote its business  
interest in maintaining an impeccable reputation for integrity.
II. Effectiveness of this Policy
This Policy is effective as of the date set forth at the top of this page and supersedes any previous  
insider trading policy of the Company. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between this Policy  
and any other materials previously distributed by the Company, this Policy shall govern. In addition,  
each Covered Person (as defined below) is responsible for complying with  

 
 2applicable law as then in force and effect. Accordingly, in the event of any conflict or inconsistency  
between this Policy and applicable law, or any omission from this Policy, Covered Persons are not  
excused from complying with applicable law.
III. Compliance Officer for this Policy
Steve Filton, UHS's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Chick Boyle, UHS's  
Senior Vice President and Controller, are the compliance officers (each, a "Compliance Officer") for this  
Policy. A Compliance Officer, or the Board of Directors of the Company, may designate additional or  
other officers of the Company to serve as a Compliance Officer for this Policy from time to time. Any  
questions concerning this Policy should be directed to, and all interpretations of this Policy shall be  
made by, a duly designated Compliance Officer.
IV. Who This Policy Applies To
This Policy applies to UHS and all of its subsidiaries.  
This Policy is applicable to all directors, officers and employees of the Company, whether located in or  
outside of the United States, as well as family members and other members of their respective  
households, partnerships in which any such person is a general partner, trusts of which any such person  
is a trustee, estates of which any such person is an administrator or executor and other legal entities  
that any such person controls (the " Covered Persons "). A Compliance Officer may also determine from  
time to time that other persons who may have access to material non-public information due to their  
activities with the Company shall be subject to this Policy. Any persons so identified by a Compliance  
Officer shall also be "Covered Persons" for purposes of this Policy.
V. Policy
If a Covered Person is in possession of material non-public information relating to the Company, that  
person may not, directly or indirectly, buy, sell or engage in other transactions in securities of the  
Company (to be broadly construed to include equity, debt and convertible securities of the Company,  
and derivatives (whether or not issued by the Company) linked to or exercisable for securities of the  
Company (the " Company Securities "), except as set forth in Section VIII below, or engage, directly or  
indirectly, in any other action to disclose to others ("tipping") or benefit from or take advantage of that  
information (for example, recommending transactions in Company Securities). This Policy also applies  
to material non-public  

 
 3information relating to any other company with publicly-traded securities, including the Company's  
customers, suppliers or other business relations, obtained in the course of the Covered Person's  
employment by, service to or other relationship with the Company.
Additional restrictions on buying, selling or engaging in other transactions in Company Securities apply  
to directors, executive officers and Section 16 Officers (as defined below) of the Company, as described  
in Section IX below.
VI. Definitions and Explanations
A. When Information is "Material"
In order to determine whether information is material, it must be evaluated in the context of all facts and  
circumstances at play at the time. Information is considered "material" if:
•a reasonable investor would consider the information important in making a decision to buy, sell  
or hold Company Securities;
•release of the information could produce a qualitative change to the package of information  
disclosed to the public by the Company; or
•public disclosure of the information would be likely to have a significant effect on the market price  
of Company Securities.
Material information can be positive or negative and can relate to virtually any aspect of the Company's  
business. Information that is or may be material includes (but is not limited to) the following, depending  
upon all facts and circumstances at the time of assessment:
•unpublished financial or operating results, positive or negative;
•projections or changes in projections of financial or operating results, upwards or downwards;
•a pending or proposed corporate transaction involving the Company, such as merger, acquisition  
or divestiture;
•a pending or proposed public offering or private placement of securities of the Company or other  
financing for the Company outside of the ordinary course of business;
•a pending or proposed repurchase or redemption of Company Securities;
•changes in the Company's relationship with a governmental payor or other significant third-party  
payor;
•changes in senior management;
•execution of a business contract that is important to the Company financially, strategically or  
otherwise;

 
 4•significant regulatory actions or challenges;
•pending or threatened litigation of potential significance to the Company, or settlement or other  
resolution of ongoing litigation;
•a change in the Company's independent registered public accounting firm;
•the need to restate financial statements;
•impending bankruptcy or liquidity problems; and
•other events or developments that the Company is required to disclose in a Form 8-K to be filed  
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (" SEC").
B. When Information is "Non-public"
Information is "non-public" if it has not been disclosed to the public. In order for information to be  
considered public, it must be widely disseminated; for example, through:
•newswire releases;
•widely available broadcasts on television and radio;
•publication in widely available newspapers or news websites; or
•disclosure in the Company's periodic reports filed with the SEC.
After a wide dissemination of material information, a reasonable period of time must elapse for the  
investing public to process the information. As a rule of thumb, one full trading day following wide  
dissemination is regarded as a reasonable waiting period before such information is deemed to be  
"public" and no longer "non-public" for purposes of this Policy. A Compliance Officer may determine that  
a different waiting period is appropriate with respect to particular Company disclosures based upon  
prevailing facts and circumstances. For the avoidance of doubt, Covered Persons should consult a  
Compliance Officer when contemplating transactions in Company Securities shortly after public  
disclosures by the Company.
C. Be Mindful of How a Transaction May be Viewed in Hindsight
If a particular transaction (or group of transactions) is challenged by enforcement authorities, it will be  
viewed with the benefit of hindsight. As a result, before engaging in any transaction, a Covered Person  
should give careful thought to whether any facts and circumstances exist that could raise suspicions  
about the propriety of the proposed transaction after the fact; for example, as to whether information that  
the Covered Person has become aware of may be construed as "material" and "non-public." Again, in  
the event of any doubt, Covered Persons should consult a Compliance Officer when contemplating  
transactions in Company Securities.

 
 5VII. Guidelines
A. Non-disclosure of Material Non-public Information
Material non-public information must not be disclosed to anyone unless it has first been widely  
disseminated to the public as described above, except to other Company personnel who have a need to  
know the information and are bound by a confidentiality obligation to the Company and covered by this  
Policy, or third party agents of the Company (such as accountants, investment bankers or outside legal  
counsel) whose positions require them to have access to such information, and who are bound by a  
professional obligation to protect its confidentiality.
B. Prohibited Trading in Company Securities
No Covered Person may place a purchase or sell order or recommend that another person place a  
purchase or sell order in Company Securities when he or she is aware of material non-public information  
concerning the Company that has not been disclosed to the public. As noted above, for purposes of the  
prohibition expressed in this Policy, "Company Securities" should be construed broadly, and the terms  
"purchase" or "sell" should also be interpreted broadly to include transactions involving Company  
Securities such as elections or changes in elections under Company Securities purchase plans, loans,  
pledges, gifts, charitable donations and other contributions of Company Securities.
C. "Tipping" Information to Others
Covered Persons may be liable for communicating or tipping material non-public information to any third  
party ("tippee"). Further, insider trading violations are not limited to trading or tipping by Covered  
Persons. Persons other than Covered Persons also can be liable for insider trading, including tippees  
who trade on material non-public information tipped to them and individuals who trade on material non-
public information which has been misappropriated.
Tippees inherit a Covered Person's duties under this Policy and applicable insider trading laws and may  
be held liable for trading on material non-public information illegally tipped to them by a Covered Person.  
Similarly, just as Covered Persons are liable for the insider trading of their tippees, so are tippees who  
communicate the information to others who trade. In other words, a tippee's liability for insider trading is  
no different from that of a Covered Person. Tippees can obtain material non-public information in  
deliberate  

 
 6ways, such as the direct receipt of a tip, or in less deliberate or obvious ways, such as conversing at  
social, business or other gatherings.
D. Prohibitions Involving Securities of Other Companies
As described in paragraphs A and C above, no Covered Person may disclose material non-public  
information or "tip" information to others to the extent the Covered Person becomes aware of material  
non-public information about another company in the course of his or her business activities on behalf of  
the Company. No Covered Person may place a purchase or sell order or recommend that another  
person place a purchase or sell order in the securities of another company if he or she becomes aware  
of material non-public information concerning that company in the course of his or her business activities  
on behalf of the Company.
E. No Hedging of Company Securities
The Company believes that purchases of hedging instruments that protect against downward changes in  
the Company's stock price can result in the purchaser no longer having the same objectives as the  
Company's other stockholders because he or she is no longer subject to the full risks of stock  
ownership. Accordingly, no employee of the Company or member of the Company's Board of Directors  
may engage in any hedging transaction that would result in lack of exposure to the full risks of stock  
ownership. Prohibited hedging transactions include, but are not limited to, collars, forward sale  
contracts, trading in publicly-traded options, puts, calls or other derivative instruments related to  
Company stock or debt. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-
Frank Act") requires companies to disclose in the proxy materials for their annual stockholders' meetings  
whether any of their employees and directors are permitted to hedge against losses on their company  
stock.
F. Transactions by the Company
The Company will comply with all applicable securities laws and regulations with respect to any  
transactions by the Company in Company Securities, subject to any policies and procedures adopted by  
the Company.
VIII. Exceptions
A. No Sale/No Purchase Transactions
The prohibitions of this Policy do not apply to bona fide gifts of Company Securities (i.e., for no  
consideration), including gifts to family members,  

 
 7charities or private foundations (unless that the Covered Person making the gift has reason to believe  
that the recipient intends to sell the Company Securities while the Covered Person is aware of material  
“non-public” information); provided  that any bona fide gifts of Company Securities should be pre-cleared  
by a Compliance Officer as provided in Section IX.C. In addition, this Policy does not restrict purchases  
and sales of mutual funds or exchange-traded funds that invest in Company Securities in addition to  
securities of other companies.
B. Transactions under Company Equity Plans
The prohibitions of this Policy also apply to a Covered Person's exercise of a stock option granted under  
a Company equity plan as well as to any sale of Company Securities received upon exercise of an  
option, regardless of whether the sale is to pay the exercise price or for tax withholding. This will not  
apply to a Covered Person's surrender of Company Securities to the Company or the retention and  
withholding from delivery to the Covered Person of shares by the Company (i.e., a so-called "net  
settlement") upon vesting of restricted stock in satisfaction of tax withholding obligations in a manner  
permitted by the applicable equity award agreement or the Company equity plan pursuant to which the  
equity award was granted. In addition, to the extent that the transactions described in this paragraph do  
not involve the sale or purchase of securities by the Covered Person with persons other than the  
Company, Compliance Officers shall have authority to waive these restrictions in the event the  
Compliance Officer determines that such actions do not result in the improper use of material non-public  
information.
IX. Additional Provisions Applicable to Designated Insiders
A. Designated Insiders
This Section IX sets forth additional provisions applicable to the following individuals associated with the  
Company (referring to UHS, not its subsidiaries) (" Designated Insiders "):
•each member of the Board of Directors of UHS;
•each "executive officer" of UHS, as described in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act;
•each individual designated as an "officer" of UHS; and
•each other individual designated as a Designated Insider by a Compliance Officer from time to  
time.
B. Blackout Periods/Trading Windows

 
 8Designated Insiders are prohibited from trading in Company Securities during blackout periods: (a) the  
Company's regularly scheduled quarterly blackout period commencing before the market opens on the  
15th of the last month of the calendar quarter and ending one business day after the Company's  
"earnings release" is issued to the public relating to the Company's financial information for the  
concluded fiscal quarter and (b) special blackout periods instituted by the Company on a discretionary  
basis when news of pending material events or other material non-public information regarding the  
Company that is anticipated to be disclosed has not yet been publicly disclosed, or stock repurchases  
are being made by the Company pursuant to its stock repurchase program. Subject to pre-clearance as  
provided in Section IX.C below, Designated Insiders are generally permitted to trade when no blackout  
period is in effect; provided, however, that even during an open trading window, a Designated Insider  
who is aware of material non-public information may not trade in Company Securities until the  
information has been made publicly available as described above, or is no longer material.
C. Pre-Clearance
Designated Insiders (including family members and other members of their respective households) must  
obtain prior clearance from a Compliance Officer before buying, selling or engaging in any transaction in  
Company Securities (except as described in Section IX.E below), including any exercise of stock  
options. A Compliance Officer will evaluate each proposed transaction to determine if it raises insider  
trading concerns or other concerns under the federal or state securities laws and regulations. Any  
advice will relate solely to legal considerations and not the merits of the investment decision. Clearance  
of a transaction will be valid only for a 48-hour period. If the transaction order is not placed within that  
48-hour period, clearance of the transaction must be re-requested from a Compliance Officer.
D. Short-Swing Trading
Directors and executive officers of the Company who purchase Company Securities may not sell any  
Company Securities of the same class for at least six months after the purchase. Note that in addition to  
this Policy, under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, any "short-swing profits" realized by a Section 16  
Officer or director of the Company from a "matching" purchase and sale or "matching" sale and  
purchase of Company Securities occurring within a six-month period would be subject to disgorgement  
to the Company.
E. Rule 10b5-1 Plans

 
 9A Covered Person's trades may be exempt from this Policy if made under a properly pre-established  
and maintained written trading plan in compliance with Rule 10b5-1(c), known as a "Rule 10b5-1 plan."  
If the Rule 10b5-1 plan meets all of the requirements for such a plan, and the purchases or sales of  
Company Securities are actually made in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan, the  
trades will not be deemed to have been made "on the basis of" material non-public information, even if  
the Designated Insider who established the plan is actually aware of material non-public information at  
the time of execution of the transactions provided for by the plan.
A properly designed Rule 10b5-1 plan must meet the following requirements, among others:
•The plan was established when the Covered Person was unaware of material non-public  
information concerning the Company
•The plan specifies the number (or dollar value) of Company Securities to be purchased or sold,  
the price (which may be a fixed price, market price or minimum/maximum price) at which the  
shares are to be traded, and the date of the trade, or provides a written formula or algorithm for  
determining the timing, amount and price of the trade (or the plan can give a third party such as a  
designated broker the exclusive right to determine the timing, amount and price of the trade);
•The plan does not permit the Covered Person to exercise any subsequent influence over how,  
when, or whether to effect purchases or sales; provided, however, that if a third party (such as a  
broker) is designated under the terms of the plan to determine the timing, amount and price of  
trades, the third party must not have been aware of the material non-public information about the  
Company or Company Securities when it makes its trading decisions; and
•The plan must be entered into in good faith and not as part of a scheme to evade insider trading  
prohibitions.
Any new Rule 10b5-1 plan, or amendment or termination of an existing Rule 10b5-1 plan, must be  
reviewed and approved by a Compliance Officer; provided, however, that trades occurring under an  
approved Rule 10b5-1 plan do not require pre-clearance.
The SEC rules regarding trading plans are complex and must be complied with completely to be  
effective. The description provided above is only a summary, and the Company strongly advises that  
you consult with your personal legal advisor if you intend to adopt a trading plan. While trading plans are  
subject to review and approval by the Company, the individual  

 
 10adopting the trading plan is ultimately responsible for compliance with Rule 10b5-1 and ensuring that the  
trading plan complies with this Policy.
F. Section 16 Reporting
Directors and Section 16 Officers are required to report transactions in Company Securities, including  
purchases, sales, transfers to trusts, changes in the nature of their ownership (i.e., from direct to  
indirect), gifts, inheritances, transfers within their 401(k) plan, stock option exercises, stock option grants  
and other stock grants to the SEC under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as  
amended. The individual has a responsibility to ensure that the required filings are made on time and  
correctly.
When an individual initially becomes a Director or a Section 16 Officer of the Company, he or she must  
report Company Securities owned by him or her at that time by filing a statement on Form 3 with the  
SEC within ten calendar days of assuming the position.
Subsequent transactions in Company Securities must be reported on Form 4 by the second business  
day following the transaction. After receiving pre-clearance in accordance with Section IX.C above, a  
Director or Section 16 Officer should forward the details of their transaction(s) via email to the office of  
Corporate Secretary no later than the date of the transaction(s) so that the Form 4 can be prepared. The  
office of Corporate Secretary will prepare and file the necessary forms electronically with the SEC. One  
manually signed copy of the Form must be kept in the individual's file, located in the Corporate  
Accounting Department. In the event the Director or Section 16 Officer is unable to manually sign a  
Form required by Section 16(a), such Form will be signed by a previously designated Attorney-in-Fact.
SEC rules require companies to report in their annual proxy statement and Form 10-K the names of any  
Directors or Section 16 Officers who, during the Company's preceding fiscal year, failed to file a Form 4  
or Form 3 or filed one late. In addition, the SEC has the authority to fine delinquent filers.
 

Exhibit 21
Subsidiaries of Registrant-2024
1001 Medical Park Drive LLC 
Incorporated State: Michigan 
2012 W. University Properties, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
2026 W. University Properties, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
ABS LINCS KY, LLC 
Incorporated State: Virginia 
Business Name: Cumberland Hall Hospital 
ABS LINCS SC, Inc.
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
ABS LINCS TN, Inc.
Incorporated State: Virginia 
ACO Management Services, LLC
Incorporated State: Nevada
ACO REACH California, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
ACO REACH DC, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
ACO REACH Florida, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
ACO REACH Nevada, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
ACO REACH NW Texas, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware
ACO REACH South Texas, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
ACO REACH Texoma, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Advanced Orthopaedic Surgery Center, LLC
Incorporated State: Nevada
Business Name: Las Vegas Institute for Advanced Surgery
Aiken Professional Association, LLC 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
Aiken Regional Medical Centers, LLC 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
Business Name: Aiken Regional Medical Centers, Aurora Pavilion Behavioral Health Services, The Surgery Center of Aiken and ER at Sweetwater, an 
Extension of Aiken Regional Medical Centers
Aiken Regional Medical Centers Surgery Center, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Aiken Regional Receivables, L.L.C 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Alabama Clinical Schools, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Alabama 
Business Name: Alabama Clinical Schools 
Alliance Health Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Mississippi 
Business Name: Alliance Health Center 
Alternative Behavioral Services, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Virginia 
Amarillo Clinical Services, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Ambulatory Surgery Center of Temecula Valley, Inc. 
Incorporated State: California 
Ambulatory Surgical Center of Aiken, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 

Arbor Group, L.L.C.
Incorporation State: District of Columbia
Arbour Foundation, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Massachusetts 
Arrowhead Behavioral Health, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Arrowhead Behavioral Health 
ASC of Aiken, Inc.
Incorporated State: Delaware 
ASC of East New Orleans, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
ASC of Las Vegas, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
ASC of Midwest City, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Oklahoma 
ASC of Puerto Rico, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Ascend Health Corporation 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Atlantic Shores Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Auburn Regional Medical Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Washington 
AZ Holding 4, LLC
Incorporated State: Arizona
Beach 77, LP 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Behavioral Educational Services, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Behavioral Health Connections, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Behavioral Health Management, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Behavioral Hospital of Bellaire 
Behavioral Health Realty, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Behavioral Healthcare Corporation
Incorporated State: Delaware
Behavioral Healthcare LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Benchmark Behavioral Health System, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Utah 
Business Name: Benchmark Behavioral Health System 
Bergen Drummers Lane GP, LLC 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 
Bergen Drummers Lane Sub, LLC 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 
BH AZ Master, LLC
Incorporated State: Arizona
BH JV Grand Rapids Employees, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
BH JV Grand Rapids, LLC
Incorporated State: Michigan
BH Newco Hospital, LLC
Incorporated State: Arizona
Business Name: Via Linda Behavioral Hospital
BHC Alhambra Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: BHC Alhambra Hospital 
BHC Belmont Pines Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 

Business Name: Belmont Pines Hospital 
BHC Fairfax Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Fairfax Behavioral Health, Fairfax Behavioral Health Monroe and Fairfax Behavioral Health Everett
BHC Fox Run Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Fox Run Center 
BHC Fremont Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Fremont Hospital 
BHC Health Services of Nevada, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
BHC Heritage Oaks Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Heritage Oaks Hospital 
BHC Holdings, Inc.
Incorporated State: Delaware 
BHC Intermountain Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Intermountain Hospital 
BHC Management Services of Streamwood, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
BHC Mesilla Valley Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Mesilla Valley Hospital 
BHC Montevista Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
BHC Northwest Psychiatric Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Brooke Glen Behavioral Hospital 
BHC of Indiana, General Partnership 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
BHC Pinnacle Pointe Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Pinnacle Pointe Behavioral Healthcare System and The Pointe Outpatient Behavioral Health Services
BHC Properties, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
BHC Sierra Vista Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Sierra Vista Hospital 
BHC Streamwood Hospital, Inc.
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Streamwood Behavioral Health System 
Black Bear Treatment Center, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Business Name: Black Bear Lodge
Bloomington Meadows, General Partnership 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Bloomington Meadows Hospital 
Brentwood Acquisition, Inc. 
Incorporation State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Brentwood Behavioral Healthcare 
Brentwood Acquisition-Shreveport, Inc. 
Incorporation State: Delaware 
Business Name: Brentwood Hospital 
Brynn Marr Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporation State: North Carolina 
Business Name: Brynn Marr Hospital 
Caireach Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom

Business Name: Beacon House Lower, Beacon House Upper, Cambian Woodside Hospital, Kirkside House, Kirkside Lodge and Adarna House
California ACO Holdings, LLC
Incorporated State: California
California Clinical Partners ACO, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Calvary Center, Inc. 
Incorporation State: Delaware 
Business Name: Calvary Healing Center 
Canyon Ridge Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporation State: California 
Business Name: Canyon Ridge Hospital 
Canyon Ridge Real Estate, LLC 
Incorporation State: Delaware 
Canyon West Los Angeles, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Cape Girardeau Behavioral Health, LLC
Incorporated State: Missouri
Business Name: Southeast Behavioral Hospital
Capitol Radiation Therapy, L.L.P.
Incorporated State: Kentucky 
CAS Aspirations Properties Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
CAS Aspirations Properties Limited (Jersey)
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
CAS Aspirations Properties III Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
CAS Aspirations Properties V Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
CAS Healthcare Properties Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
CAS Learning Disabilities Services Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
CAS St. Paul’s Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
CAT Realty, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
CAT Seattle, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
CCS/Lansing, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Michigan 
CDS of Nevada, Inc. 
Incorporation State: Nevada
Cedar Springs Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Cedar Springs Hospital
Central Montgomery Medical Center, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 
Chalmette Medical Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Louisiana 
Children’s Comprehensive Services, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Clinical Trials JV, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Clive Behavioral Health, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware
Business Name: Clive Behavioral Health
Columbus Hospital Partners, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Columbus Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 

Business Name: Columbus Behavioral Center for Children and Adolescents  
Community Cornerstones, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Puerto Rico 
Coral Shores Behavioral Health, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Business Name: Coral Shores Behavioral Health
Cornerstone Hospital Management, LLC 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Cornerstone Hospital Properties, LP 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Cornerstone Regional Hospital, LP 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Business Name: Cornerstone Regional Hospital 
Corona Regional Medical Center Community Fund
Incorporated State: California
Crossings Healthcare Solutions, Inc.
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Crossings Software Solutions, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Crossings Supply Chain Solutions, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Cumberland Hospital Partners, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Cumberland Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Virginia 
Business Name: Cumberland Hospital 
Cygnet 2002 Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet Aspirations Developments Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet Behavioural Health Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name:  1 Vincent Court, Woodcross & Turls Hill, 15 The Sycamores,  4, 5, 7 The Sycamores, Adele Cottages, Cygnet Appletree, Cygnet Aspen 
Clinic, Cygnet Aspen House, Cygnet Brunel, Cygnet Churchill, Cygnet Delfryn House, Cygnet Delfryn Lodge, Cygnet Fountains, Cygnet Heathers, 
Cygnet Oaks, Cygnet Paddock, Cygnet Raglan House, Cygnet Sedgley House, Cygnet Sedgley Lodge, Cygnet Sherwood House, Cygnet Hospital – 
Sherwood, Cygnet St. Augustine’s, Cygnet St. Teilo House, Cygnet St. William’s, Cygnet Storthfield House, Cygnet Victoria House,  Cygnet Pindar 
House, Cygnet Sherwood Lodge, Meadows Mews Cygnet Nield House, Sherwood Lodge Step Down, Ty Alarch, Cygnet Hospital – Oldbury, Cygnet 
Hospital – Wolverhampton, Malborn & Teroan and Rhyd Alyn.
Cygnet Care Services Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name: Amberwood Lodge, Broughton House, Broughton Lodge, Nightingale, Devon Lodge, Elston House, Oakhurst Lodge and The Squirrels 
Cygnet Clifton Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name: Cygnet Alders Clinic, Cygnet Acer, Cygnet Acer 2 and Cygnet Hospital – Clifton
Cygnet DHG Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet D Holdings Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet Health Care Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name: Cygnet Hospital – Beckton, Cygnet Hospital – Bierley, Cygnet Hospital – Derby, Cygnet Hospital – Ealing, Cygnet Hospital – Godden 
Green, Cygnet Hospital – Harrogate, Cygnet Hospital – Harrow, Cygnet Hospital – Kewstoke, Cygnet Hospital – Stevenage, Cygnet Hospital – Wyke, 
Cygnet Lodge – Brighouse, Cygnet Lodge – Kenton, Cygnet Lodge – Lewisham, Cygnet Hospital  – Blackheath, Tabley House Nursing Home, Tupwood 
Gate Nursing Home, Cygnet Hospital – Taunton, Cygnet Joyce Parker Hospital and Cygnet Hospital – Maidstone   
Cygnet Health Developments Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet Health Properties Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom

Cygnet Health UK Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet Hospitals Holdings Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet Inter-Holdings Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet Learning Disabilities Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name:   Colchester – Chestnut Court, Cygnet Hospital – Highwoods, Cygnet Hospital – Larch Court, Cygnet Hospital – Oak Court and Cygnet 
Hospital – Ramsey 
Cygnet Learning Disabilities Midlands Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name: Beeches, Birches, Cygnet Cedars, Conifers, Cygnet Elms, Cygnet Grange, Cygnet Lodge, Cygnet Manor, Pines, Cygnet Views, Fairways, 
The Fields, Gables, Gledholt, Long Eaton Day Services, Sheffield Day Services, Chaseways, Marion House, Glyn House, Morgan House, Cherry Tree 
House, Gledholt Mews, Hansa Lodge, Walkern Lodge and Shear Meadow
Cygnet NW Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name: Cygnet Hospital – Bury, Cygnet Hospital – Sheffield and Cygnet Lodge – Salford
Cygnet Propco HoldCo II Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet Propco Holdco Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet Propco II Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet Propco Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet Surrey Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name: Cygnet Hospital – Woking, Cygnet Lodge – Woking
Cygnet (DH) Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name: Cygnet Cedar Vale, Cygnet Wast Hills, Ellen Mhor, Ranaich House, Thistle House, Trinity House, Trinity Lodge, Cygnet Wallace 
Hospital, Lindsay House, Hope House, Hollyhurst, Thornfield Grange, Oaklands, Redlands, River View, Toller Road, Willow House, Cygnet Hospital – 
Hexham, Cygent Newham House and Ashbrook 
Cygnet (DM) LLP
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Cygnet (OE) Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name: Cygnet Bostall House, Ducks Halt, The Orchards, Old Leigh House and Thors Park
Cypress Creek Real Estate, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Del Amo Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: California 
Business Name: Del Amo Behavioral Health System 
DHP 2131 K ST, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Diamond Grove Center, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Diamond Grove Center 
District Hospital Partners Receivables, L.L.C 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
District Hospital Partners, L.P. 
Incorporated State: District of Columbia 
Business Name: The George Washington University Hospital 
DOCACO Gulf Coast, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Doctors’ Hospital of Shreveport, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Louisiana 
Drummers Lane Investors, LP 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 

Drummers Lane Sub, LP 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 
DVH Hospital Alliance, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Business Name: Desert View Hospital
Eastern Pennsylvania Physician Alliance, LLC
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania
Edinburg Ambulatory Surgical Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Edinburg Holdings, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Edinburg MOB Properties, LLC 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Edinburg Surgery Center, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
EM Alliance, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Emerald Coast Behavioral Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Emerald Coast Behavioral Hospital 
Emotional Connect, LLC
Incorporated State: Puerto Rico
Everglades Holdings, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Everycorner Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Fannin Management Services, LLC
Incorporated State: Texas
FHCHS of Puerto Rico, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Puerto Rico 
First Hospital Corporation of Nashville 
Incorporated State: Virginia 
First Hospital Corporation of Virginia Beach 
Incorporated State: Virginia 
Business Name: Virginia Beach Psychiatric Center 
First Hospital Panamericano, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Puerto Rico 
Business Name: First Hospital Panamericano Cidra, First Hospital Panamericano Ponce and First Hospital Panamericano San Juan
Florida Outpatient Services, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Forest Hill Medical Properties, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Forest View Psychiatric Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Michigan 
Business Name: Forest View Hospital 
Fort Duncan Medical Center Ladies Auxiliary 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Fort Duncan Medical Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Fort Duncan Medical Center, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Fort Duncan Regional Medical Center 
Fort Duncan Medical Receivables, L.L.C 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Fort Lauderdale Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Florida 
Business Name: Fort Lauderdale Behavioral Health Center 
Foundations Atlanta, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Foundations Chicago, LLC
Incorporated State: Illinois

Foundations Detroit, LLC 
Incorporated State: Michigan
Business Name: Skywood Outpatient
Foundations for Home and Community, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Virginia 
Foundations Management, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware
Foundations Recovery Network, LLC
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Foundations San Diego, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Foundations Virginia, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Friends Behavioral Health System, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 
Business Name: Friends Hospital 
Friends GP, LLC 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 
FRN Lake County, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
FRN Nashville, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
FRN Outpatient, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
FRN San Francisco, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Business Name: Foundations San Francisco 
FRN Washington, LLC
Incorporated State: Washington
FRN, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware
Frontline Behavioral Health, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Frontline Children’s Hospital, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Frontline Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: North Star Hospital, Chris Kyle Patriot’s Hospital and North Star Bragaw
Frontline Residential Treatment Center, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: DeBarr Residential Treatment Center and Palmer Residential Treatment Center 
Garfield Park Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Illinois 
Business Name: Garfield Park Behavioral Hospital
Gateway-Phase IV Commercial Property Owners Association, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas
GBO NNHS ASC, JV, LLC
Incorporated State: Nevada
Glen Oaks Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Business Name: Glen Oaks Hospital 
Golden Hill Terrace, LLC
Incorporated State; Delaware
Great Plains Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Missouri 
Business Name: Heartland Behavioral Health Services 
Gulf Coast Treatment Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Florida 
Business Name: Gulf Coast Treatment Center and Okaloosa Youth Academy 
Gulph Mills Associates, LLC 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 

H.C. Corporation 
Incorporated State: Alabama 
H.C. Partnership 
Incorporated State: Alabama 
Business Name: Hill Crest Behavioral Health Services 
Harbor Point Behavioral Health Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Virginia 
Business Name: Harbor Point Behavioral Health Center and Kempsville Center for Behavioral Health 
Havenwyck Hospital Inc. 
Incorporated State: Michigan 
Business Name: Havenwyck Hospital and Cedar Creek Hospital 
Health Alliance ACO, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
HealthGPT, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Heart Clinic, P.L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Heritage Oaks Patient Enrichment Center, Inc.
Incorporated State: California
Business Name: Heritage Oaks Patient Enrichment Center
HHC Augusta, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Georgia 
Business Name: Lighthouse Care Center of Augusta 
HHC Berkeley, Inc.
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
HHC Delaware, Inc.
Incorporated State: Delaware 
HHC Indiana, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Indiana 
Business Name: Michiana Behavioral Health 
HHC Kingwood Investment, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
HHC Oconee, Inc. 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
HHC Ohio, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Ohio 
Business Name: Windsor Laurelwood Center for Behavioral Medicine 
HHC Pennsylvania, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
HHC Poplar Springs, LLC 
Incorporated State: Virginia 
Business Name: Poplar Springs Hospital 
HHC River Park, Inc. 
Incorporated State: West Virginia 
Business Name: River Park Hospital 
HHC South Carolina, Inc. 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
Business Name: Lighthouse Behavioral Health Hospital 
HHC St. Simons, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Georgia 
Business Name: Saint Simons By-The-Sea 
Hickory Trail Hospital, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Hickory Trail Hospital 
Hidalgo County Clinical Services, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
High Plains Behavioral Health, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
HLN Physicians, Inc.
Incorporated State: California

Holly Hill Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Holly Hill Hospital 
Holly Hill Real Estate, LLC 
Incorporated State: North Carolina 
HOPE Crisis Stabilization Unit 
Incorporated State: California
Horizon Health Austin, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Horizon Health Corporation 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Horizon Health Hospital Services, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Horizon Health Physical Rehabilitation Services, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Horizon Mental Health Management, LLC 
Incorporated State: Texas 
HRI Clinics, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Massachusetts 
Business Name: Arbour Counseling Services 
HRI Hospital, Inc.
Incorporated State: Massachusetts 
Business Name: HRI Hospital 
HSA Hill Crest Corporation 
Incorporated State: Alabama 
Hughes Center, LLC
Incorporated State: Virginia 
Business Name: The Hughes Center 
Independence Aiken, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Independence Amarillo, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Independence Anesthesia, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Independence Anesthesia of South Carolina, LLC
Incorporated State: South Carolina
Independence Denison, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Independence Enid, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Independence Laredo, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Independence Las Vegas, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Independence Manatee, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Independence McAllen, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Independence Physician Management, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Independence Shared Services, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Independence Southern California, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Independence Sparks, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Independence Wellington, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Indiana Psychiatric Institutes, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 

InfoScriber Corporation 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
IPM Holding Sub, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
IPM SoCal Management, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Isand Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name: Beckly, Hawkstone, Langdale House, Outwood, Oxley Woodhouse, Oxley Lodge and Thornfield House
Isand (Domiciliary Care) Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name: Ashfield House, Gledcliffe Road and Langdale Coach House 
Island 77, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
KEYS Group Holdings LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Keystone Charlotte LLC 
Incorporated State: North Carolina 
Keystone Continuum, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Mountain Youth Academy 
Keystone Education and Youth Services, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Keystone Marion, LLC 
Incorporated State: Virginia 
Keystone Memphis, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Compass Intervention Center and McDowell Center for Children 
Keystone Newport News, LLC 
Incorporated State: Virginia 
Business Name: Newport News Behavioral Health Center 
Keystone NPS LLC 
Incorporated State: California 
Keystone Richland Center LLC 
Incorporated State: Ohio 
Business Name: Foundations for Living 
Keystone WSNC, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: North Carolina 
Business Name: Old Vineyard Behavioral Health Services
Keystone/CCS Partners LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Kids Behavioral Health of Alaska, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Alaska 
Kids Behavioral Health of Utah, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Utah 
Business Name: Copper Hills Youth Center 
Kingwood Pines Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Texas 
KMI Acquisition, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: The Brook Hospital-KMI 
La Amistad Residential Treatment Center, LLC 
Incorporated State: Florida 
Business Name: Central Florida Behavioral Hospital, La Amistad Behavioral Health Services 
La Paloma Treatment Center, LLC
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Lancaster Behavioral Health Hospital, LLC
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania
Business Name: Lancaster Behavioral Health Hospital
Lancaster Hospital Corporation 
Incorporated State: California 

Business Name: Palmdale Regional Medical Center 
Lancaster Hospital Receivables, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Laredo ASC, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Laredo FED JV1, LLC
Incorporated State: Texas
Laredo Holdings, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Laredo MOB Partners, Ltd. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Laredo Physicians Group 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Laredo Regional Medical Center, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Doctors’ Hospital of Laredo, Doctors’ Hospital Emergency Room South, a Service of Doctors Hospital of Laredo and Doctors’ Hospital 
Emergency Room Saunders, a Service of Doctors Hospital of Laredo
Laredo Regional Receivables, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Laredo Regional, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Las Vegas Medical Group, LLC 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
Laurel Oaks Behavioral Health Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Laurel Oaks Behavioral Health Center 
Laurelwood Associates, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Ohio 
Lebanon Hospital Partners, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Liberty Point Behavioral Healthcare, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Liberty Point Behavioral Healthcare 
Manatee ACO Holdings, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Manatee Cardiology Associates, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Manatee Memorial Foundation, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Florida 
Manatee Memorial Hospital, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Manatee Memorial Hospital, Lakewood Ranch Medical Center, Manatee Diagnostic Center Arcadia, Manatee Diagnostic Center Parrish, 
Manatee Diagnostic Center Pointe West and Manatee Diagnostic Center Riverside, ER at Sun City Center, an Extension of Manatee Memorial Hospital, 
ER at Bayshore Gardens, an Extension of Manatee Memorial Hospital, ER at Palma Sola, an Extension of Manatee Memorial Hospital and ER at Fruitville, 
an Extension of Lakewood Ranch Medical Center 
Manatee Memorial Receivables, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Manatee Physician Alliance, LLC 
Incorporated State: Florida 
Manatee Specialty Physician Alliance, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Mayhill Behavioral Health, LLC 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Business Name: Mayhill Hospital 
Mayhill Behavioral Properties, LLC 
Incorporated State: Texas 
McAllen Holdings, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
McAllen Hospitalist Group, PLLC 
Incorporated State: Texas 

McAllen Hospitals Receivables, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
McAllen Hospitals, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: South Texas Health System Behavioral, South Texas Health System Children’s, South Texas Health System Edinburg, South Texas 
Health System McAllen, South Texas Health System Heart, South Texas Health System ER Alamo, South Texas Health System ER McColl, South Texas 
Health System ER Mission, South Texas Health System ER Monte Cristo, South Texas Health System ER Ware Road and South Texas Health System ER 
Weslaco and South Texas Health System ER Pharr
McAllen Medical Center Foundation 
Incorporated State: Texas 
McAllen Medical Center Physicians, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
McAllen Medical Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Mental Health Outcomes, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Meridell Achievement Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Business Name: Meridell Achievement Center 
Merion Building Management, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Mesilla Valley Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: New Mexico 
MHCCC, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Michigan BH JV, LLC
Incorporated State: Michigan
Business Name: Beaumont Behavioral Health
Michigan BH JV Employees, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Michigan Healthcare Staffing, LLC
Incorporated State: Michigan
Michigan Psychiatric Services, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Michigan
Mid Atlantic Medicine, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Millwood Hospital, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Business Name: Millwood Hospital 
Milwaukee Behavioral Health, LLC
Incorporated State: Wisconsin
Business Name: Granite Hills Hospital
Nashville Rehab, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Neuro Institute of Austin, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Business Name: Texas NeuroRehab Center 
Nevada Clinical Services, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
Nevada Preferred Healthcare Providers, LLC
Incorporated State: Nevada
NEWCO BH PA JV, LLC
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania
North Spring Behavioral Healthcare, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: North Spring Behavioral Healthcare 
North Texas Clinical Partners, LLC
Incorporated State: Texas
Northern Indiana Partners, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Northern Nevada ASC Management, LLC

Incorporated State: Nevada
Northern Nevada Diagnostic Imaging-Spanish Springs, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
Northern Nevada Medical Group, LLC 
Incorporation State: Nevada 
Northwest Texas Healthcare Receivables, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Northwest Texas Healthcare System, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Business Name: Northwest Texas Healthcare System, Northwest Texas Healthcare System Behavioral Health, Northwest Emergency at Town Square, a 
Service of Northwest Texas Healthcare System and Northwest Emergency on Georgia, a Service of Northwest Texas Healthcare System
Northwest Texas Physician Group 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Northwest Texas Wyatt Clinic, PLLC 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Northwest Urgent Care, PLLC
Incorporated State: Texas
NWTHS Management, LLC
Incorporated State: Texas
NWTX Physician Network, PLLC 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Oak Plains Academy of Tennessee, Inc. 
Incorporation State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Oak Plains Academy 
Oasis Health Systems, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
Ocala Behavioral Health, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: The Vines Hospital 
Olympia Behavioral Health, LLC
Incorporated State: Washington
Orchard Portman Hospital Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Orchard Portman House Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Oregon Psychiatric Realty, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
P3 Valley Health Network, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Palm Point Behavioral Health, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Business Name: Palm Point Behavioral Health
Palm Springs Treatment Centers, LLC
Incorporated State: Tennessee
Business Name: Michael’s House and Michael’s House Outpatient 
Palmdale Regional Medical Foundation 
Incorporated State: California 
Palmetto Behavioral Health Holdings, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Palmetto Behavioral Health Solutions, LLC 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
Palmetto Behavioral Health System, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
Palmetto Lowcountry Behavioral Health, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
Business Name: Palmetto Lowcountry Behavioral Health 
Palmetto Mt. Pleasant Behavioral Health, LLC
Incorporated State: South Carolina
Palmetto Pee Dee Behavioral Health, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 

Park HealthCare Company 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Pasteur Healthcare Properties, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Peak Behavioral Health Services, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Pendleton Methodist Hospital, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Pennsylvania Clinical Schools, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 
Pinnacle Management Group NV, LLC
Incorporated State: Nevada
Pointe Physician Group, PLLC
Incorporated State: Florida
PR Holding II, LLC
Incorporated State: Puerto Rico
Premier Behavioral Solutions of Florida, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Palm Shores Behavioral Health Center and Suncoast Behavioral Health Center 
Premier Behavioral Solutions, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Preparatory School at the National Deaf Academy, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Florida 
Pride Institute, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Minnesota 
Business Name: PRIDE Institute 
Prominence Care Alliance, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Prominence Florida Holdings, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Prominence HealthFirst
Incorporated State: Nevada
Prominence HealthFirst of Florida, Inc.
Incorporated State: Florida
Prominence HealthFirst of Texas, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas
Prominence Holdings, LLC
Incorporated State: Nevada
Prominence Management Services, LLC
Incorporated State: Nevada 
Prominence Preferred Health Insurance Company, Inc.
Incorporated State: Nevada 
Prominence Vera, LLC
Incorporated State: Nevada
Provo Canyon School, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Utah 
PSJ Acquisition, LLC 
Incorporated State: North Dakota 
Business Name: Prairie St. John’s 
Psychiatric Realty, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Psychiatric Solutions Hospitals, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Psychiatric Solutions of Virginia, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
PsychManagement Group, Inc. 
Incorporated State: West Virginia 
Quail Surgical and Pain Management Center, LLC
Incorporated State: Nevada

Business Name: Quail Surgical and Pain Management Center
Radiation Oncology Center of Aiken, LLC 
Incorporation State: South Carolina 
Business Name: Cancer Care Institute of Carolina 
Ramsay Managed Care, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Ramsay Youth Services of Georgia, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Rancho Springs Receivables, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Recovery Physician Group of California, P.C.
Incorporated State: California
Recovery Physicians Group of Georgia, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Recovery Physicians Group of Tennessee, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Recovery Physicians Network of Michigan
Incorporated State: Michigan
Relational Therapy Clinic, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Louisiana 
Relativeto Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name: Dene Brook, Longfield House, Dove Valley Mews, Woodrow House and Lowry House
Reno Management Services, LLC
Incorporated State: Nevada
Business Name: Personalized Radiation Oncology
Ridge Outpatient Counseling, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Kentucky 
River Crest Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
River Oaks, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Louisiana 
Business Name: River Oaks Hospital 
Riveredge Hospital Holdings, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Riveredge Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Illinois 
Business Name: Riveredge Hospital 
Riveredge Real Estate, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Illinois 
Riverside Medical Clinic Patient Services, LLC
Incorporated State: California
RMC Surgery Center, LLC
Incorporated State: California
Rolling Hills Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Rolling Hills Hospital 
RR Behavioral Realty LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
RR Recovery LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: The Recovery Center 
Sacramento Crisis Stabilization Center, Inc.
Incorporated State: California
Salt Lake Behavioral Health, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Salt Lake Behavioral Health 
Salt Lake Psychiatric Realty, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Samson Properties, LLC 
Incorporated State: Florida 

Schick Shadel of Florida, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Sentara Care Alliance, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Shadow Mountain Behavioral Health System, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
SHC-KPH, LP 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Business Name: Kingwood Pines Hospital
Short Ground Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Business Name: Norcott House and Norcott Lodge 
Silver State ACO, LLC
Incorporated State: Nevada
SLBMI Alternative Programs, LLC
Incorporated State: Missouri
Somerset, Incorporated 
Incorporated State: California 
South Texas ACO Clinical Partners, LLC
Incorporated State: Texas
Southeastern Hospital Corporation 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Southern California Physician Network, Inc. 
Incorporated State: California
Southern California Urgent Care Network
Incorporated State: California
Southern Riverside County Physician Network, PC
Incorporated State: California
Southside Imaging Center, LLC 
Incorporation State: South Carolina 
SP Behavioral, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida 
Business Name: SandyPines Residential Treatment Center
Sparks Family Hospital Receivables, L.L.C 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Sparks Family Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
Business Name: Northern Nevada Medical Center and Sierra Medical Center, an Extension of Northern Nevada Medical Center, ER at Spanish Springs, an 
Extension of Northern Nevada Medical Center; ER at Damonte Ranch, an Extension of Northern Nevada Medical Center, Northwest Specialty Hospital, an 
Extension of Northern Nevada Medical Center, ER at McCarran NW, an Extension of Northern Nevada Medical Center
Speeds Healthcare Ltd.
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
Spokane Behavioral Health LLC
Incorporated State: Washington
Business Name: Inland Northwest Behavioral Health
Spokane Valley Behavioral Health, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Spring Valley Hospital Medical Center Auxiliary
Incorporated State: Nevada
Springfield Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Lincoln Prairie Behavioral Health Center 
St. Louis Behavioral Medicine Institute, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Missouri 
Business Name: Saint Louis Behavioral Medicine Institute 
St. Mary’s Laboratory, LLC 
Incorporated State: Oklahoma 
St. Mary’s Physician Associates, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Oklahoma
Stac Healthcare Limited

Incorporated State: United Kingdom
STHS IDTF at Weslaco, LLC
Incorporated State: Texas
Stonington Behavioral Health, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Stonington Institute 
Summerlin Hospital Medical Center LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Summerlin Hospital Medical Center and ER at South Summerlin, an Extension of Summerlin Hospital
Summerlin Hospital Medical Center, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Summerlin Hospital Receivables, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware
Summerlin Medical Center Auxiliary
Incorporated State: Nevada 
Summit Oaks Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: New Jersey 
Business Name: Summit Oaks Hospital 
Sunstone Behavioral Health, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Surgery Center of Amarillo, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Surgery Center of the Temecula Valley, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Taunton Hospital Limited 
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
TBD Acquisition, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: The Brook Hospital-Dupont 
TBD Acquisition II, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Business Name: Gulfport Behavioral Health System
TBJ Behavioral Center, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: River Point Behavioral Health 
Temecula Valley Day Surgery & Pain Therapy Center, Inc.
Incorporated State: California
Business Name: Temecula Valley Day Surgery,
Temecula Valley Hospital Receivables, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Temecula Valley Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: California 
Business Name: Temecula Valley Hospital 
Temple Behavioral Healthcare Hospital, Inc.
Incorporated State: Texas
Business Name: Canyon Creek Behavioral Health
Tennessee Clinical Schools, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Hermitage Hall 
Texas Cypress Creek Hospital, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Business Name: Cypress Creek Hospital 
Texas Hospital Holdings, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Texas Hospital Holdings, LLC 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Texas Laurel Ridge Hospital, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Business Name: Laurel Ridge Treatment Center 
Texas Oaks Psychiatric Hospital, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Texas 

Business Name: Austin Oaks Hospital 
Texas Panhandle Clinical Partners ACO, LLC
Incorporated State: Texas
Texas San Marcos Treatment Center, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Business Name: San Marcos Treatment Center 
Texas West Oaks Hospital, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Business Name: West Oaks Hospital 
Texoma Clinical Partners ACO, LLC
Incorporated State: Texas
Texoma Healthcare System Receivables, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
TexomaCare 
Incorporated State: Texas 
TexomaCare Specialty Physicians 
Incorporated State: Texas 
The Arbour, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Massachusetts 
Business Name: Arbour Hospital 
The Bridgeway, LLC. 
Incorporated State: Arkansas 
Business Name: The Bridgeway 
The Canyon at Peace Park, LLC
Incorporated State: California 
The Canyon at Santa Monica, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Business Name: The Canyon at Santa Monica  
The Charter School at the National Deaf Academy, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Florida 
The Friends of Wellington Regional Medical Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Florida 
The National Deaf Academy, LLC 
Incorporated State: Florida 
The Pavilion Foundation 
Incorporated State: Illinois 
Business Name: The Pavilion Behavioral Health System 
The Shores Behavioral Hospital, LLC 
Incorporated State: Florida 
Thousand Branches Business Support Services, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Thousand Branches Professionals Florida, PLLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Thousand Branches Professionals, PC 
Incorporated State: California
Three Rivers Behavioral Health, LLC 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
Business Name: Three Rivers Behavioral Health 
Three Rivers Healthcare Group, LLC 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
Three Rivers Residential Treatment/Midlands Campus, Inc. 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
Business Name: Three Rivers Midlands 
Three Rivers SPE Holding, LLC 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
Three Rivers SPE, LLC 
Incorporated State: South Carolina 
Toledo Holding Co., LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Turning Point Care Center, LLC 
Incorporated State: Georgia 

Business Name: Turning Point Care Center
Two Rivers Psychiatric Hospital, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
TXOK Urgent Cares
Incorporated State: Texas
UB of West FL HoldCo, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UB of West FL, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UBH of Oregon, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Cedar Hills Hospital 
UBH of Phoenix Realty, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UBH of Phoenix, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Valley Hospital 
UBMAA, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHP, LP 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: University Behavioral Health of Denton 
UHS Advisory, Inc.
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS Altru ND JV, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Ambulatory Network LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS ASC LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS ASC Master, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Assurance Company Ltd.
Incorporated State: Bermuda
UHS BH Internship Aggregator, LLC
Incorporated State: Arizona
UHS BH PA JV, LLC
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania
UHS BH Telepsych, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Building Solutions, Inc. 
Incorporation State: Delaware 
UHS Capitol Acquisition, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Children Services, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS East End Corporation
Incorporated State: District of Columbia
UHS East End Sub, LLC
Incorporated State: District of Columbia
UHS Florida MA JV Holdings, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
UHS Florida Regional Office, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
UHS FLPG Florida, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Funding, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS Good Samaritan, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS Green Bay OUD, LLC 

Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS High Point OUD, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Holding Company, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Nevada
UHS Home Health LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Imaging LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Integrated Management, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS International, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS Kentucky Holdings, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Manitowoc OUD, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS Midwest Behavioral Health, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS Midwest Center for Youth and Families, LLC 
Incorporated State: Indiana 
Business Name: Midwest Center for Youth and Families 
UHS of Alpine Lakes, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS of Anchor, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Anchor Hospital 
UHS of Benton Day School and Treatment Program, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS of Benton, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Rivendell Behavioral Health Services of Arkansas 
UHS of Bowling Green, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Rivendell Behavioral Health Hospital
UHS of Centennial Peaks, LLC 
Incorporation State: Delaware 
Business Name: Centennial Peaks Hospital 
UHS of Cornerstone Holdings, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS of Cornerstone, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS of D.C., Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS of Delaware, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS of Denver, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Highlands Behavioral Health System 
UHS of Desert Springs, Inc.
Incorporated State; Delaware
UHS of Dover, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Dover Behavioral Health System 
UHS of Doylestown, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Foundations Behavioral Health 
UHS of Fairmount, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Fairmount Behavioral Health System 

UHS of Fuller, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Massachusetts 
Business Name: Fuller Hospital 
UHS of GB, Inc.
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS of Georgia Holdings, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS of Georgia, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS of Greenville, LLC. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: The Carolina Center for Behavioral Health 
UHS of Hampton Learning Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: New Jersey 
UHS of Hampton, Inc. 
Incorporated State: New Jersey 
Business Name: Hampton Behavioral Health Center 
UHS of Hartgrove, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Illinois 
Business Name: Hartgrove Behavioral Health System
UHS of Indiana, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Indiana 
UHS of Kansas City, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS of Kootenai River, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS of Lakeside, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Lakeside Behavioral Health System 
UHS of Lancaster, LLC
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania
UHS of Laurel Heights, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Laurel Heights Hospital 
UHS of Madera, Inc.
Incorporated State: Delaware
Business Name: River Vista Behavioral Health
UHS of New Orleans, LLC 
Incorporated State: Louisiana 
UHS of No. Nevada, LLC 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
UHS of Oklahoma Receivables, L.L.C 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS of Oklahoma, LLC
Incorporated State: Oklahoma 
Business Name: St. Mary’s Regional Medical Center
UHS of Parkwood, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Parkwood Behavioral Health System 
UHS of Peachford, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Peachford Hospital 
UHS of Pennsylvania, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 
Business Name: Clarion Psychiatric Center, The Horsham Clinic, The Meadows Psychiatric Center and Roxbury Treatment Center 
UHS of Phoenix, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Quail Run Behavioral Health 
UHS of Provo Canyon, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Provo Canyon School and Aspen Grove Behavioral Hospital 

UHS of Puerto Rico, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS of Ridge, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: The Ridge Behavioral Health System 
UHS of River Parishes, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Louisiana 
UHS of Rockford, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Rockford Center 
UHS of Salt Lake City, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS of Savannah, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Coastal Harbor Treatment Center and Coastal Behavioral Health 
UHS of Spring Mountain, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Spring Mountain Treatment Center 
UHS of Springwoods, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Springwoods Behavioral Health 
UHS of SummitRidge, L.L.C. 
Incorporation State: Delaware 
Business Name: SummitRidge Hospital 
UHS of Sutton, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS of Talbot, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Talbott Recovery and Talbott Dunwoody 
UHS of Texoma, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Texoma Medical Center, TMC Behavioral Health Center, ER at Sherman, a Service of Texoma Medical Center and ER at Anna, a Service 
of Texoma Medical Center 
UHS of Timberlawn, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
UHS of Timpanogos, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Center for Change 
UHS of Tucson, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Business Name: Palo Verde Behavioral Health 
UHS of Westwood Pembroke, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Massachusetts 
Business Name: Pembroke Hospital 
UHS of Wyoming, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Wyoming Behavioral Institute 
UHS Oklahoma City LLC 
Incorporated State: Oklahoma 
Business Name: Cedar Ridge Behavioral Hospital, Cedar Ridge Residential Treatment Center and Cedar Ridge Behavioral Hospital at Bethany
UHS OUD Specialty Hold Co., LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Outpatient CA, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Thousand Branches Mission Valley
UHS Outpatient GA, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Outpatient IL, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Outpatient MN, LLC

Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Outpatient TX, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Petersburg OUD, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS-Corona Receivables, L.L.C 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS-Corona, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Corona Regional Medical Center 
UHS-Evolution Homecare, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS-Lakeland Medical Center, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS-LVHN JV, LLC
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania
UHSB International SRL
Incorporated State: Barbados 
UHSB International II SRL
Incorporated State: Barbados
UHSD, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
UHSF, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHSL, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
UHS Receivables Corporation 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS Recovery Foundation, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 
Business Name: Keystone Center
UHS Retail Pharmacy LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS S TX Investco, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Sahara, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Spring Mountain Sahara 
UHS Southern California Medical Education Consortium, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Sub III, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware 
UHS Surgical Hospital of Texoma, LLC 
Incorporated State: Texas 
UHS TeleHealth LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS Telehealth Product, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
UHS THP Holdings, LLC
Incorporated State: Texas
UK Acquisitions No.6 Limited
Incorporated State: United Kingdom
United HealthCare of Hardin, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Business Name: Lincoln Trail Behavioral Health System 
Universal Community Behavioral Health, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 
Universal HMO, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
Universal Health Finance, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 

Universal Health Network, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
Universal Health Recovery Centers, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 
Universal Health Services Foundation 
Incorporated State: Pennsylvania 
Universal Health Services of Cedar Hill, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
Universal Health Services of Palmdale, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Universal Health Services of Rancho Springs, Inc. 
Incorporated State: California 
Business Name: Southwest Healthcare Inland Valley Hospital and Southwest Healthcare Rancho Springs Hospital
Universal Treatment Centers, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
University Behavioral Health of El Paso, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: El Paso Behavioral Health System  
University Behavioral, LLC 
Incorporated State: Florida 
Business Name: University Behavioral Center 
Valle Vista Hospital Partners, LLC 
Incorporated State: Tennessee 
Valle Vista, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Valle Vista Health System and New Vista North Outpatient Recovery Center and New Vista Outpatient Recovery Center
Valley Health System LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Names: Centennial Hills Hospital Medical Center, ER at Desert Springs, an Extension of Valley Hospital, Henderson Hospital, Spring Valley 
Hospital Medical Center and Valley Hospital Medical Center, ER at Green Valley Ranch, an Extension of Henderson Hospital, ER at Blue Diamond, an 
Extension of Spring Valley Hospital Elite Medical Center, an Extension of Valley Hospital and ER at Valley Vista, an Extension of Centennial Hills 
Hospital; ER at West Craig, an Extension of Centennial Hills Hospital, ER at North Las Vegas, an Extension of Valley Hospital, Valley Health Specialty 
Hospital, an Extension of Spring Valley Hospital, ER at Cadence, an Extension of Henderson Hospital
Valley Health System Receivables, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Valley Hospital Medical Center, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
Valley Surgery Center, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
VHS ACO Holdings, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
VHS Primary Care Network, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Virgin Islands Behavioral Services, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Virginia 
Vista Diagnostic Center, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Nevada 
Wekiva Springs Center, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Wekiva Springs Center 
Wellington Physician Alliances, Inc. 
Incorporation State: Florida 
Wellington Regional Health & Education Foundation, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Florida 
Wellington Regional Medical Center, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida 
Business Name: Wellington Regional Medical Center and ER at Westlake, an Extension of Wellington Regional Medical Center
Wellington Regional Receivables, L.L.C. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 

Wellstone Holdings, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Wellstone Regional Hospital Acquisition, LLC 
Incorporated State: Indiana 
Business Name: Wellstone Regional Hospital 
West Church Partnership 
Incorporated State: Illinois 
West Henderson Hospital Medical Center, LLC
Incorporated State: Nevada  
Business Name: West Henderson Hospital
West Oaks Real Estate, L.P. 
Incorporated State: Texas 
West Patrick Real Estate, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Westside Outpatient Center, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Business Name: Palms Wellington Surgical Center
Wildomar Medical Properties, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Willow Springs, LLC 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Business Name: Willow Springs Center 
Windmoor Healthcare Inc. 
Incorporated State: Florida 
Business Name: Windmoor Healthcare of Clearwater 
Windmoor Healthcare of Pinellas Park, Inc. 
Incorporated State: Delaware 
Wisconsin Avenue Psychiatric Center, Inc., 
Incorporated State: Delaware
Business Name: Psychiatric Institute of Washington 
WRMCABNS, LLC
Incorporated State: Florida
Yarrow Lodge, LLC
Incorporated State: Delaware
Business Name: Skywood Recovery
Zeus Endeavors, LLC 
Incorporated State: Florida 
 
 
 

 
 1Exhibit 22.1
 
Subsidiary Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities and Affiliates Whose Securities Collateralize Securities of 
the Registrant
 
Guaranteed Securities
The following securities (collectively, the “UHS Senior Secured Notes”) issued by Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware 
corporation (the “Company”), were outstanding as of December 31, 2024. 
Description of Notes
1.650% Senior Secured Notes due 2026
4.625% Senior Secured Notes due 2029
2.650% Senior Secured Notes due 2030
2.650% Senior Secured Notes due 2032
5.050% Senior Secured Notes due 2034 
 
Obligors
The obligors under the UHS Senior Secured Notes consisted of the Company, as issuer, and its subsidiaries listed in the 
following table, as Guarantors.
 
Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction of 
Organization  
Obligor Type
ABS LINCS KY, LLC Virginia Guarantor
ABS LINCS SC, Inc. South Carolina Guarantor
Aiken Regional Medical Centers, LLC South Carolina Guarantor
Alliance Health Center, Inc. Mississippi Guarantor
Alternative Behavioral Services, Inc. Virginia Guarantor
Ascend Health Corporation Delaware Guarantor
Atlantic Shores Hospital, LLC Delaware Guarantor
AZ Holding 4, LLC Arizona Guarantor
Beach 77 LP Delaware Guarantor
Behavioral Health Management, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Behavioral Health Realty, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Behavioral Healthcare LLC Delaware Guarantor
Benchmark Behavioral Health System, Inc. Utah Guarantor
BHC Alhambra Hospital, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor

 
 2 
Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction of 
Organization  
Obligor Type
BHC Belmont Pines Hospital, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
BHC Fairfax Hospital, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
BHC Fox Run Hospital, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
BHC Fremont Hospital, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
BHC Health Services of Nevada, Inc. Nevada Guarantor
BHC Heritage Oaks Hospital, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
BHC Holdings, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
BHC Intermountain Hospital, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
BHC Mesilla Valley Hospital, LLC Delaware Guarantor
BHC Montevista Hospital, Inc. Nevada Guarantor
BHC Northwest Psychiatric Hospital, LLC Delaware Guarantor
BHC of Indiana, General Partnership Tennessee Guarantor
BHC Pinnacle Pointe Hospital, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
BHC Properties, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
BHC Sierra Vista Hospital, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
BHC Streamwood Hospital, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
Bloomington Meadows, General Partnership Tennessee Guarantor
Brentwood Acquisition-Shreveport, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Brentwood Acquisition, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
Brynn Marr Hospital, Inc. North Carolina Guarantor
Calvary Center, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Canyon Ridge Hospital, Inc. California Guarantor
CAT Realty, LLC Delaware Guarantor
CAT Seattle, LLC Delaware Guarantor
CCS/Lansing, Inc. Michigan Guarantor
Cedar Springs Hospital, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Children’s Comprehensive Services, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
Columbus Hospital Partners, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
Coral Shores Behavioral Health, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Cumberland Hospital Partners, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Cumberland Hospital, LLC Virginia Guarantor
Del Amo Hospital, Inc. California Guarantor
DHP 2131 K St, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Diamond Grove Center, LLC Delaware Guarantor

 
 3 
Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction of 
Organization  
Obligor Type
District Hospital Partners, L.P. District of Columbia Guarantor
DVH Hospital Alliance LLC Delaware Guarantor
Emerald Coast Behavioral Hospital, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Fannin Management Services, LLC Texas Guarantor
First Hospital Corporation of Virginia Beach Virginia Guarantor
Forest View Psychiatric Hospital, Inc. Michigan Guarantor
Fort Duncan Medical Center, L.P. Delaware Guarantor
Fort Lauderdale Hospital, Inc. Florida Guarantor
FRN, INC. Delaware Guarantor
Frontline Behavioral Health, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Frontline Hospital, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Frontline Residential Treatment Center, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Garfield Park Hospital, LLC Illinois Guarantor
Great Plains Hospital, Inc. Missouri Guarantor
Gulf Coast Treatment Center, Inc. Florida Guarantor
Gulph Mills Associates, LLC Pennsylvania Guarantor
H. C. Corporation Alabama Guarantor
H.C. Partnership Alabama Guarantor
Harbor Point Behavioral Health Center, Inc. Virginia Guarantor
Havenwyck Hospital Inc. Michigan Guarantor
HHC Augusta, Inc. Georgia Guarantor
HHC Delaware, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
HHC Indiana, Inc. Indiana Guarantor
HHC Ohio, Inc. Ohio Guarantor
HHC Pennsylvania, LLC Delaware Guarantor
HHC Poplar Springs, LLC Virginia Guarantor
HHC River Park, Inc. West Virginia Guarantor
HHC South Carolina, Inc. South Carolina Guarantor
HHC St. Simons, Inc. Georgia Guarantor
Hickory Trail Hospital, L.P. Delaware Guarantor
Holly Hill Hospital, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
Horizon Health Austin, Inc. Texas Guarantor
Horizon Health Corporation Delaware Guarantor
Horizon Health Hospital Services, LLC Delaware Guarantor

 
 4 
Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction of 
Organization  
Obligor Type
Horizon Mental Health Management, LLC Texas Guarantor
HSA Hill Crest Corporation Alabama Guarantor
Hughes Center, LLC Virginia Guarantor
Independence Physician Management, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Keys Group Holdings LLC Delaware Guarantor
Keystone Continuum, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
Keystone Education and Youth Services, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
Keystone Marion, LLC Virginia Guarantor
Keystone Memphis, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
Keystone Newport News, LLC Virginia Guarantor
Keystone NPS LLC California Guarantor
Keystone Richland Center LLC Ohio Guarantor
Keystone WSNC, L.L.C. North Carolina Guarantor
Keystone/CCS Partners LLC Delaware Guarantor
Kids Behavioral Health of Utah, Inc. Utah Guarantor
Kingwood Pines Hospital, LLC Texas Guarantor
KMI Acquisition, LLC Delaware Guarantor
La Amistad Residential Treatment Center, LLC Florida Guarantor
Lancaster Hospital Corporation California Guarantor
Laurel Oaks Behavioral Health Center, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Lebanon Hospital Partners, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
Liberty Point Behavioral Healthcare, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Manatee Memorial Hospital, L.P. Delaware Guarantor
Mayhill Behavioral Health, LLC Texas Guarantor
McAllen Hospitals, L.P. Delaware Guarantor
McAllen Medical Center, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Meridell Achievement Center, Inc. Texas Guarantor
Merion Building Management, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Michigan Psychiatric Services, Inc. Michigan Guarantor
Millwood Hospital, L.P. Texas Guarantor
Milwaukee Behavioral Health, LLC Wisconsin Guarantor
Neuro Institute of Austin, L.P. Texas Guarantor
North Spring Behavioral Healthcare, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor

 
 5 
Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction of 
Organization  
Obligor Type
Northern Indiana Partners, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
Northwest Texas Healthcare System, Inc. Texas Guarantor
Oak Plains Academy of Tennessee, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
Ocala Behavioral Health, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Palm Point Behavioral Health, LLC Florida Guarantor
Palmetto Behavioral Health Holdings, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Palmetto Behavioral Health System, L.L.C. South Carolina Guarantor
Palmetto Lowcountry Behavioral Health, L.L.C. South Carolina Guarantor
Park Healthcare Company Tennessee Guarantor
Pasteur Healthcare Properties, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Pendleton Methodist Hospital, L.L.C. Delaware Guarantor
Pennsylvania Clinical Schools, Inc. Pennsylvania Guarantor
Premier Behavioral Solutions of Florida, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Premier Behavioral Solutions, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
PSJ Acquisition, LLC North Dakota Guarantor
Psychiatric Realty, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Psychiatric Solutions Hospitals, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Psychiatric Solutions of Virginia, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Ramsay Managed Care, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Ramsay Youth Services of Georgia, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Ridge Outpatient Counseling, L.L.C. Kentucky Guarantor
River Oaks, Inc. Louisiana Guarantor
Riveredge Hospital Holdings, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Riverside Medical Clinic Patient Services, L.L.C. California Guarantor
Rolling Hills Hospital, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
RR Recovery, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Salt Lake Behavioral Health, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Salt Lake Psychiatric Realty, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Samson Properties, LLC Florida Guarantor
Schick Shadel of Florida, LLC Florida Guarantor
Shadow Mountain Behavioral Health System, LLC Delaware Guarantor

 
 6 
Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction of 
Organization  
Obligor Type
SHC-KPH, LP Texas Guarantor
Southeastern Hospital Corporation Tennessee Guarantor
SP Behavioral, LLC Florida Guarantor
Sparks Family Hospital, Inc. Nevada Guarantor
Springfield Hospital, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Stonington Behavioral Health, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Summit Oaks Hospital, Inc. New Jersey Guarantor
Sunstone Behavioral Health, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
TBD Acquisition II, LLC Delaware Guarantor
TBD Acquisition, LLC Delaware Guarantor
TBJ Behavioral Center, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Temecula Valley Hospital, Inc. California Guarantor
Temple Behavioral Healthcare Hospital, Inc. Texas Guarantor
Tennessee Clinical Schools, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
Texas Cypress Creek Hospital, L.P. Texas Guarantor
Texas Hospital Holdings, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Texas Laurel Ridge Hospital, L.P. Texas Guarantor
Texas Oaks Psychiatric Hospital, L.P. Texas Guarantor
Texas San Marcos Treatment Center, L.P. Texas Guarantor
Texas West Oaks Hospital, L.P. Texas Guarantor
The Arbour, Inc. Massachusetts Guarantor
The Bridgeway, LLC Arkansas Guarantor
The National Deaf Academy, LLC Florida Guarantor
Three Rivers Behavioral Health, LLC South Carolina Guarantor
Three Rivers Healthcare Group, LLC South Carolina Guarantor
Toledo Holding Co., LLC Delaware Guarantor
Turning Point Care Center, LLC Georgia Guarantor
Two Rivers Psychiatric Hospital, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UBH of Oregon, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UBH of Phoenix Realty, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UBH of Phoenix, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHP LP Delaware Guarantor
UHS Capitol Acquisition, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHS Children Services, Inc. Delaware Guarantor

 
 7 
Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction of 
Organization  
Obligor Type
UHS Funding, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHS Holding Company, Inc. Nevada Guarantor
UHS Kentucky Holdings, L.L.C. Delaware Guarantor
UHS Midwest Behavioral Health, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Anchor, L.P. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Benton, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Bowling Green, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Centennial Peaks, L.L.C. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Cornerstone Holdings, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Cornerstone, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of D.C., Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Delaware, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Denver, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Dover, L.L.C. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Doylestown, L.L.C. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Fairmount, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Fuller, Inc. Massachusetts Guarantor
UHS of Georgia Holdings, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Georgia, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Greenville, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Hampton, Inc New Jersey Guarantor
UHS of Hartgrove, Inc. Illinois Guarantor
UHS of Lakeside, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Lancaster, LLC Pennsylvania Guarantor
UHS of Laurel Heights, L.P. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Madera, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of New Orleans, LLC Louisiana Guarantor
UHS of Oklahoma, LLC Oklahoma Guarantor
UHS of Parkwood, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Peachford, L.P. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Pennsylvania, Inc. Pennsylvania Guarantor
UHS of Phoenix, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Provo Canyon, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Puerto Rico, Inc. Delaware Guarantor

 
 8 
Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction of 
Organization  
Obligor Type
UHS of Ridge, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHS of River Parishes, Inc. Louisiana Guarantor
UHS of Rockford, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Salt Lake City, L.L.C. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Savannah, L.L.C. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Spring Mountain, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Springwoods, L.L.C. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Summitridge, L.L.C. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Texoma, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Timberlawn, Inc. Texas Guarantor
UHS of Timpanogos, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Tucson, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHS of Westwood Pembroke, Inc. Massachusetts Guarantor
UHS of Wyoming, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS Oklahoma City LLC Oklahoma Guarantor
UHS Sahara, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHS Sub III, LLC Delaware Guarantor
UHS-Corona, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
UHSD, L.L.C. Nevada Guarantor
UHSL, L.L.C. Nevada Guarantor
United Healthcare of Hardin, Inc. Tennessee Guarantor
Universal Health Services of Palmdale, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Universal Health Services of Rancho Springs, Inc. California Guarantor
University Behavioral Health of El Paso, LLC Delaware Guarantor
University Behavioral, LLC Florida Guarantor
Valle Vista Hospital Partners, LLC Tennessee Guarantor
Valle Vista, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Valley Health System LLC Delaware Guarantor
Valley Hospital Medical Center, Inc.  Nevada Guarantor
Wekiva Springs Center, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Wellington Regional Medical Center, LLC Florida Guarantor
Wellstone Regional Hospital Acquisition, LLC Indiana Guarantor

 
 9 
Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction of 
Organization  
Obligor Type
Willow Springs, LLC Delaware Guarantor
Windmoor Healthcare Inc. Florida Guarantor
Windmoor Healthcare of Pinellas Park, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Wisconsin Avenue Psychiatric Center, Inc. Delaware Guarantor
Zeus Endeavors, LLC Florida Guarantor
 
Pledged Security Collateral
 
As of December 31, 2024, the obligations under the UHS Senior Secured Notes were secured by pledges of the equity of the following 
affiliates of the Company.
 
 
Name of IssuerIssuer Jurisdiction of 
OrganizationPercent of 
Interest 
OwnedPercent of 
Interest Pledged
2012 W. University Properties, LLC Delaware 100 100
2026 W. University Properties, LLC Delaware 100 100
ABS LINCS KY, LLC Virginia 100 100
ABS LINCS SC, Inc. South Carolina 100 100
ABS LINCS TN, Inc. Virginia 100 100
Aiken Regional Medical Centers, LLC South Carolina 100 100
Alabama Clinical Schools, Inc. Alabama 100 100
Alliance Health Center, Inc. Mississippi 100 100
Alternative Behavioral Services, Inc. Virginia 100 100
Ambulatory Surgery Center of Temecula Valley, Inc. California 100 100
ASC of Aiken, Inc. Delaware 100 100
ASC of East New Orleans, Inc. Delaware 100 100
ASC of Las Vegas, Inc. Nevada 100 100
ASC of Midwest City, Inc. Oklahoma 100 100
ASC of Puerto Rico, Inc. Delaware 100 100
ASC of Wellington, Inc. Florida 100 100
Ascend Health Corporation Delaware 100 100
Atlantic Shores Hospital, LLC Delaware 100 100
Auburn Regional Medical Center, Inc. Washington 100 100
AZ Holding 4, LLC Arizona 100 100
Beach 77 LP Delaware 99 99
Behavioral Educational Services, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Behavioral Health Connections, Inc. Texas 100 100
Behavioral Health Management, LLC Delaware 100 100
Behavioral Health Realty, LLC Delaware 100 100
Behavioral Healthcare LLC Delaware 100 100
Benchmark Behavioral Health System, Inc. Utah 100 100
BHC Alhambra Hospital, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
BH AZ Master, LLC Arizona 51 51
BHC Fairfax Hospital, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
BHC Fox Run Hospital, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
BHC Fremont Hospital, Inc. Tennessee 100 100

 
 10 
Name of IssuerIssuer Jurisdiction of 
OrganizationPercent of 
Interest 
OwnedPercent of 
Interest Pledged
BHC Health Services of Nevada, Inc. Nevada 100 100
BHC Heritage Oaks Hospital, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
BHC Holdings, Inc. Delaware 100 100
BHC Intermountain Hospital, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
BHC Management Services of Streamwood, LLC Delaware 100 100
BHC Mesilla Valley Hospital, LLC Delaware 100 100
BHC Montevista Hospital, Inc. Nevada 100 100
BHC Northwest Psychiatric Hospital, LLC Delaware 100 100
BHC of Indiana, General Partnership Tennessee 100 100
BHC Pinnacle Pointe Hospital, LLC Tennessee 100 100
BHC Properties, LLC Tennessee 100 100
BHC Sierra Vista Hospital, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
BHC Streamwood Hospital, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
Bloomington Meadows, General Partnership Tennessee 100 100
Brentwood Acquisition, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
Brentwood Acquisition-Shreveport, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Brynn Marr Hospital, Inc. North Carolina 100 100
Calvary Center, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Canyon Ridge Hospital, Inc. California 100 100
Canyon Ridge Real Estate, LLC Delaware 100 100
CAT Realty, LLC Delaware 100 100
Cape Girardeau Behavioral Health, LLC Missouri 75 75
CAT Seattle, LLC Delaware 100 100
CCS/Lansing, Inc. Michigan 100 100
Cedar Springs Hospital, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Central Montgomery Medical Center, L.L.C. Pennsylvania 100 100
Chalmette Medical Center, Inc. Louisiana 100 100
Children’s Comprehensive Services, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
Clive Behavioral Health, LLC Delaware 52 52
Columbus Hospital Partners, LLC Tennessee 100 100
Columbus Hospital, LLC Delaware 100 100
Coral Shores Behavioral Health, LLC Delaware 100 100
Cornerstone Hospital Management, LLC Texas 58.3 58.3
Cornerstone Regional Hospital, LP Texas 50.2 50.2
Crossings Healthcare Solutions, Inc.  100 100
Cumberland Hospital Partners, LLC Delaware 100 100
Cumberland Hospital, LLC Virginia 100 100
Cypress Creek Real Estate, L.P. Delaware 99 99
Del Amo Hospital, Inc. California 100 100
DHP 2131 K St, LLC Delaware 100 100
Diamond Grove Center, LLC Delaware 100 100
District Hospital Partners, L.P. District of Columbia 100 100
Doctors’ Hospital of Shreveport, Inc. Louisiana 100 100
DVH Hospital Alliance LLC Delaware 100 100
Edinburg Ambulatory Surgical Center, Inc. Texas 100 100
Edinburg Holdings, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Edinburg MOB Properties, LLC Florida 100 100

 
 11 
Name of IssuerIssuer Jurisdiction of 
OrganizationPercent of 
Interest 
OwnedPercent of 
Interest Pledged
Emerald Coast Behavioral Hospital, LLC Delaware 100 100
Everglades Holdings, LLC Delaware 100 100
Fannin Management Services, LLC Texas 100 100
First Hospital Corporation of Virginia Beach Virginia 100 100
Forest View Psychiatric Hospital, Inc. Michigan 100 100
Fort Duncan Medical Center, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Fort Duncan Medical Center, L.P. Delaware 99 99
Fort Lauderdale Hospital, Inc. Florida 100 100
Foundations Recovery Network, LLC Tennessee 100 100
Friends Behavioral Health System, LP Pennsylvania 79.92 79.92
Friends GP, LLC Pennsylvania 80 80
FRN, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Frontline Behavioral Health, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Frontline Children’s Hospital, L.L.C. Delaware 100 100
Frontline Hospital, LLC Delaware 100 100
Frontline Residential Treatment Center, LLC Delaware 100 100
Garfield Park Hospital, LLC Illinois 100 100
Glen Oaks Hospital, Inc. Texas 100 100
Great Plains Hospital, Inc. Missouri 100 100
Gulf Coast Treatment Center, Inc. Florida 100 100
Gulph Mills Associates, LLC Pennsylvania 100 100
H. C. Corporation Alabama 100 100
H. C. Partnership Alabama 100 100
Harbor Point Behavioral Health Center, Inc. Virginia 100 100
Havenwyck Hospital Inc. Michigan 100 100
HHC Augusta, Inc. Georgia 100 100
HHC Berkeley, Inc. South Carolina 100 100
HHC Delaware, Inc. Delaware 100 100
HHC Indiana, Inc. Indiana 100 100
HHC Kingwood Investment, LLC Delaware 100 100
HHC Oconee, Inc. South Carolina 100 100
HHC Ohio, Inc. Ohio 100 100
HHC Pennsylvania, LLC Delaware 100 100
HHC Poplar Springs, LLC Virginia 100 100
HHC River Park, Inc. West Virginia 100 100
HHC South Carolina, Inc. South Carolina 100 100
HHC St. Simons, Inc. Georgia 100 100
Hickory Trail Hospital, L.P. Delaware 99 99
High Plains Behavioral Health, L.P. Delaware 99 99
Holly Hill Hospital, LLC Tennessee 100 100
Holly Hill Real Estate, LLC North Carolina 100 100
Horizon Health Austin, Inc. Texas 100 100
Horizon Health Corporation Delaware 100 100
Horizon Health Hospital Services, LLC Delaware 100 100
Horizon Health Physical Rehabilitation Services, LLC Delaware 100 100
Horizon Mental Health Management, LLC Texas 100 100
HRI Clinics, Inc. Massachusetts 100 100
HRI Hospital, Inc. Massachusetts 100 100

 
 12 
Name of IssuerIssuer Jurisdiction of 
OrganizationPercent of 
Interest 
OwnedPercent of 
Interest Pledged
HSA Hill Crest Corporation Alabama 100 100
Hughes Center, LLC Virginia 100 100
Independence Amarillo, LLC Delaware 100 100
Independence Denison, LLC Delaware 100 100
Independence Laredo, LLC Delaware 100 100
Independence McAllen, LLC Delaware 100 100
Independence Wellington, LLC Delaware 100 100
Independence Physician Management, LLC Delaware 100 100
Indiana Psychiatric Institutes, LLC Delaware 100 100
InfoScriber Corporation Delaware 100 100
Island 77 LLC Delaware 100 100
KEYS Group Holdings LLC Delaware 100 100
Keystone Charlotte LLC North Carolina 100 100
Keystone Continuum, LLC Tennessee 100 100
Keystone Education and Youth Services, LLC Tennessee 100 100
Keystone Marion, LLC Virginia 100 100
Keystone Memphis, LLC Tennessee 100 100
Keystone NPS LLC California 100 100
Keystone Newport News, LLC Virginia 100 100
Keystone Richland Center LLC Ohio 100 100
Keystone WSNC, L.L.C. North Carolina 100 100
Keystone/CCS Partners LLC Delaware 100 100
Kids Behavioral Health of Utah, Inc. Utah 100 100
Kingwood Pines Hospital, LLC Texas 100 100
KMI Acquisition, LLC Delaware 100 100
KOP Limited South Carolina 100 100
La Amistad Residential Treatment Center, LLC Florida 100 100
Lancaster Behavioral Health Hospital, LLC Pennsylvania 50 50
Lancaster Hospital Corporation California 100 100
Laredo ASC, Inc. Texas 100 100
Laredo Holdings, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Laredo Regional, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Laredo Regional Medical Center, LP Delaware 80.14 80.14
Laurel Oaks Behavioral Health Center, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Lebanon Hospital Partners, LLC Tennessee 100 100
Liberty Point Behavioral Healthcare, LLC Delaware 100 100
Manatee Memorial Hospital, L.P. Delaware 100 100
Mayhill Behavioral Health, LLC Texas 100 100
Mayhill Behavioral Properties, LLC Texas 100 100
McAllen Holdings, Inc. Delaware 100 100
McAllen Hospitals, L.P. Delaware 100 100
McAllen Medical Center, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Mental Health Outcomes, LLC Delaware 100 100
Meridell Achievement Center, Inc. Texas 100 100
Merion Building Management, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Mesilla Valley Hospital, Inc. New Mexico 100 100
Michigan BH JV, LLC Michigan 74 74
Michigan Healthcare Staffing, LLC Michigan 100 100

 
 13 
Name of IssuerIssuer Jurisdiction of 
OrganizationPercent of 
Interest 
OwnedPercent of 
Interest Pledged
Michigan Psychiatric Services, Inc. Michigan 100 100
Millwood Hospital, L.P. Texas 99 99
Milwaukee Behavioral Health, LLC Wisconsin 100 100
Nashville Rehab, LLC Tennessee 100 100
Neuro Institute of Austin, L.P. Texas 99 99
NEWCO Oregon, Inc. Delaware 100 100
North Spring Behavioral Healthcare, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
Northern Indiana Partners, LLC Tennessee 100 100
Northern Nevada Diagnostic Imaging-Spanish Springs, L.L.C Nevada 100 100
Northwest Texas Healthcare System, Inc. Texas 100 100
NWTHS Management, LLC Texas 100 100
Oak Plains Academy of Tennessee, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
Ocala Behavioral Health, LLC Delaware 100 100
Oregon Psychiatric Realty, LLC Delaware 100 100
Palm Point Behavioral Health, LLC Florida 100 100
Palmetto Behavioral Health Holdings, LLC Delaware 100 100
Palmetto Behavioral Health Solutions, LLC South Carolina 100 100
Palmetto Behavioral Health System, L.L.C. South Carolina 100 100
Palmetto Lowcountry Behavioral Health, L.L.C. South Carolina 100 100
Palmetto Pee Dee Behavioral Health, L.L.C. South Carolina 100 100
Park Healthcare Company Tennessee 100 100
Pasteur Healthcare Properties, LLC Delaware 100 100
Peak Behavioral Health Services, LLC Delaware 100 100
Pendleton Methodist Hospital, L.L.C. Delaware 100 100
Pennsylvania Clinical Schools, Inc. Pennsylvania 100 100
PR Holding II, Inc. Puerto Rico 100 100
Premier Behavioral Solutions of Florida, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Premier Behavioral Solutions, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Pride Institute, Inc. Minnesota 100 100
PSJ Acquisition, LLC North Dakota 100 100
Psychiatric Realty, LLC Delaware 100 100
Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Psychiatric Solutions Hospitals, LLC Delaware 100 100
Psychiatric Solutions of Virginia, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
PsychManagement Group, Inc. West Virginia 100 100
Radiation Oncology Center of Aiken, LLC South Carolina 95 95
Ramsay Managed Care, LLC Delaware 100 100
Ramsay Youth Services of Georgia, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Red Rock Solutions, LLC Delaware 100 100
Relational Therapy Clinic, Inc. Louisiana 100 100
Ridge Outpatient Counseling, L.L.C. Kentucky 100 100
River Crest Hospital, Inc. Texas 100 100
River Oaks, Inc. Louisiana 100 100
Riveredge Hospital Holdings, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Riveredge Hospital, Inc. Illinois 100 100
Riveredge Real Estate, Inc. Illinois 100 100

 
 14 
Name of IssuerIssuer Jurisdiction of 
OrganizationPercent of 
Interest 
OwnedPercent of 
Interest Pledged
Riverside Medical Clinic Patient Services, L.L.C. California 100 100
Rolling Hills Hospital, LLC Tennessee 100 100
RR Behavioral Realty LLC Delaware 100 100
RR Recovery, LLC Delaware 100 100
Salt Lake Behavioral Health, LLC Delaware 100 100
Salt Lake Psychiatric Realty, LLC Delaware 100 100
Samson Properties, LLC Florida 100 100
Schick Shadel of Florida, LLC Florida 100 100
Shadow Mountain Behavioral Health System, LLC Delaware 100 100
SHC-KPH, LP Texas 99.1 99.1
Somerset, Incorporated California 100 100
Southeastern Hospital Corporation Tennessee 100 100
Southside Imaging Center, LLC South Carolina 100 100
SP Behavioral, LLC Florida 100 100
Sparks Family Hospital, Inc. Nevada 100 100
Spokane Behavioral Health, LLC Washington 80 80
Spokane Valley Behavioral Health, LLC Delaware 100 100
Springfield Hospital, Inc. Delaware 100 100
St. Louis Behavioral Medicine Institute, Inc. Missouri 100 100
Stonington Behavioral Health, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Summerlin Hospital Medical Center, LP Delaware 93.2 93.2
Summit Oaks Hospital, Inc. New Jersey 100 100
Sunstone Behavioral Health, LLC Tennessee 100 100
TBD Acquisition, LLC Delaware 100 100
TBD Acquisition II, LLC Delaware 100 100
TBJ Behavioral Center, LLC Delaware 100 100
Temecula Valley Hospital, Inc. California 100 100
Temple Behavioral Healthcare Hospital, Inc. Texas 100 100
Tennessee Clinical Schools, LLC Tennessee 100 100
Texas Cypress Creek Hospital, L.P. Texas 99 99
Texas Hospital Holdings, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Texas Hospital Holdings, LLC Texas 100 100
Texas Laurel Ridge Hospital, L.P. Texas 99 99
Texas Oaks Psychiatric Hospital, L.P. Texas 99 99
Texas San Marcos Treatment Center, L.P. Texas 99 99
Texas West Oaks Hospital, L.P. Texas 99 99
The Arbour, Inc. Massachusetts 100 100
The Bridgeway, LLC Arkansas 100 100
The National Deaf Academy, LLC Florida 100 100
Three Rivers Behavioral Health, LLC South Carolina 100 100
Three Rivers Healthcare Group, LLC South Carolina 100 100
Three Rivers Residential Treatment/Midlands Campus, Inc. South Carolina 100 100
Three Rivers SPE Holding, LLC South Carolina 100 100
Toledo Holding Co., LLC Delaware 100 100
Turning Point Care Center, LLC Georgia 100 100
Two Rivers Psychiatric Hospital, Inc. Delaware 100 100

 
 15 
Name of IssuerIssuer Jurisdiction of 
OrganizationPercent of 
Interest 
OwnedPercent of 
Interest Pledged
UBH of Phoenix, LLC Delaware 100 100
UBH of Phoenix Realty, LLC Delaware 100 100
UBH of Oregon, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHP LP Delaware 100 100
UHS Advisory, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS BH Telepsych, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHS Building Solutions, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS Capitol Acquisition, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHS Children Services, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS Funding, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHS Good Samaritan, L.L.C. Delaware 100 100
UHS Holding Company, Inc. Nevada 100 100
UHS International, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS Kentucky Holdings, L.L.C. Delaware 100 100
UHS Midwest Behavioral Health, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHS Midwest Center for Youth and Families, LLC Indiana 100 100
UHS Oklahoma City LLC Oklahoma 100 100
UHS Receivables Corp. Delaware 100 100
UHS Sahara, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS Surgical Hospital of Texoma, LLC Texas 100 100
UHS of Anchor, L.P. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Benton Day School and Treatment Program, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Benton, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHS of Bowling Green, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHS of Centennial Peaks, L.L.C. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Cornerstone Holdings, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Cornerstone, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of D.C., Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Delaware, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Denver, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Dover, L.L.C. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Doylestown, L.L.C. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Fairmount, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Fuller, Inc. Massachusetts 100 100
UHS of GB, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Georgia Holdings, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Georgia, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Greenville, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHS of Hampton Learning Center, Inc. New Jersey 100 100
UHS of Hampton, Inc. New Jersey 100 100
UHS of Hartgrove, Inc. Illinois 100 100
UHS of Indiana, Inc. Indiana 100 100
UHS of Kootenai River, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Lakeside, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHS of Lancaster, LLC Pennsylvania 100 100
UHS of Laurel Heights, L.P. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Madera, Inc. Delaware 100 100

 
 16 
Name of IssuerIssuer Jurisdiction of 
OrganizationPercent of 
Interest 
OwnedPercent of 
Interest Pledged
UHS of New Orleans, LLC Louisiana 100 100
UHS of No. Nevada, LLC Nevada 100 100
UHS of Oklahoma Receivables, L.L.C Delaware 100 100
UHS of Oklahoma, LLC Oklahoma 100 100
UHS of Parkwood, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Peachford, L.P. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Pennsylvania, Inc. Pennsylvania 100 100
UHS of Phoenix, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHS of Provo Canyon, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Puerto Rico, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Ridge, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHS of River Parishes, Inc. Louisiana 100 100
UHS of Rockford, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHS of Salt Lake City, L.L.C. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Savannah, L.L.C. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Spring Mountain, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Springwoods, L.L.C. Delaware 100 100
UHS of SummitRidge, L.L.C. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Sutton, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Talbot, L.P. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Texoma, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Timberlawn, Inc. Texas 100 100
UHS of Timpanogos, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS of Tuscon, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHS of Westwood Pembroke, Inc. Massachusetts 100 100
UHS of Wyoming, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS-Corona, Inc. Delaware 100 100
UHS-Lakeland Medical Center, L.L.C. Delaware 100 100
UHS Sub III, LLC Delaware 100 100
UHSD, L.L.C Nevada 100 100
UHSF, L.L.C Delaware 100 100
UHSL, L.L.C Nevada 100 100
UK Acquisition No. 6, Ltd United Kingdom 100 65
United Healthcare of Hardin, Inc. Tennessee 100 100
Universal Community Behavioral Health, Inc. Pennsylvania 100 100
Universal HMO, Inc. Nevada 100 100
Universal Health Network, Inc. Nevada 100 100
Universal Health Recovery Centers, Inc. Pennsylvania 100 100
Universal Health Services of Cedar Hill, Inc. Texas 100 100
Universal Health Services of Palmdale, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Universal Health Services of Rancho Springs, Inc. California 100 100
Universal Treatment Centers, Inc. Delaware 100 100
University Behavioral, LLC Florida 100 100
University Behavioral Health of El Paso, LLC Delaware 100 100
Valle Vista Hospital Partners, LLC Tennessee 100 100
Valle Vista, LLC Delaware 100 100
Valley Health System LLC Delaware 100 100
Valley Hospital Medical Center, Inc. Nevada 100 100

 
 17 
Name of IssuerIssuer Jurisdiction of 
OrganizationPercent of 
Interest 
OwnedPercent of 
Interest Pledged
Virgin Islands Behavioral Services, Inc. Virginia 100 100
Vista Diagnostic Center, L.L.C. Nevada 100 100
Wekiva Springs Center, LLC Delaware 100 100
Wellington Physician Alliances, Inc. Florida 100 100
Wellington Regional Medical Center, LLC Florida 100 100
Wellstone Holdings, LLC Delaware 100 100
Wellstone Regional Hospital Acquisition, LLC Indiana 98 98
West Church Partnership Illinois 100 100
West Oaks Real Estate, L.P. Texas 99 99
Westside Outpatient Center, LLC Florida 50 50
Willow Springs, LLC Delaware 100 100
Windmoor Healthcare Inc. Florida 100 100
Windmoor Healthcare of Pinellas Park, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Wisconsin Avenue Psychiatric Center, Inc. Delaware 100 100
Zeus Endeavors, LLC Florida 100 100

Exhibit 23.1
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-282135) and Form S-8 (Nos. 333-
167356, 333-156425, 333-119143, 333-112332, 333-126025, 333-122188, 333-206298, 333-218359, 333-238880, 333-265495, 333-156424, 
333-279787) of Universal Health Services, Inc. of our report dated February 26, 2025 relating to the financial statements, financial statement 
schedule and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.  
 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
February 26, 2025
 

 
 Exhibit 31.1
CERTIFICATION—Chief Executive Officer
I, Marc D. Miller, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Universal Health Services, Inc.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the 
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the 
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The registrant’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in 
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for 
the registrant and have:
a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, 
to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those 
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our 
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the 
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant’s most 
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to 
materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to 
the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):
a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are 
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal 
control over financial reporting.
Date: February 26, 2025
 
/S/    MARC D. MILLER
Marc D. Miller
Chief Executive Officer
 
 

 
 Exhibit 31.2
CERTIFICATION—Chief Financial Officer
I, Steve Filton, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Universal Health Services, Inc.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the 
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the 
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The registrant’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in 
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for 
the registrant and have:
a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision 
to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those 
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our 
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the 
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report, based on such evaluation; and
d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant’s most 
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to 
materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to 
the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):
a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are 
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal 
control over financial reporting.
Date: February 26, 2025
 
/S/    STEVE FILTON
Steve Filton
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
 

 
 Exhibit 32.1
CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
In connection with the Annual Report of Universal Health Services, Inc. (the “Company”) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, as 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the “Report”), I, Marc D. Miller, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, 
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1350, as adopted pursuant to § 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and to the best of my knowledge, that:
(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the 
Company at the end of, and for the period covered by, the Report.
 
/S/    MARC D. MILLER
Marc D. Miller
Chief Executive Officer
February 26, 2025
 
A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Universal Health Services, Inc. and will be retained and 
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.
 

 
 Exhibit 32.2
CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
In connection with the Annual Report of Universal Health Services, Inc. (the “Company”) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, as 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the “Report”), I, Steve Filton, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1350, as adopted pursuant to § 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and to the best of my knowledge, 
that:
(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the 
Company at the end of, and for the period covered by, the Report.
 
/S/    STEVE FILTON
Steve Filton
Executive Vice President and  
Chief Financial Officer
February 26, 2025
 
A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Universal Health Services, Inc. and will be retained and 
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.
 

 
 - 1 -Exhibit 97
Universal Health Services, Inc. 
Clawback Policy
The Board of Direc tors (the “Board ”) of Universal Health Services, Inc. (the “Company ”) believes that it is in the best 
interests of the Company and its shareholders to adopt this Clawback Policy (this “Policy ”), which provides for the recovery of 
certain incentive compensation in the event of an Accounting Restatement (as defined below). This Policy is designed to comply  
with, and shall be interpreted to be consistent with, Section 10D (“Section 10D”) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
amended (the “Exchange Act”), Rule 10D-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act (“Rule 10D-1 ”) and Section 303A .14 of the 
New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual  (the “ NYSE Rule ”).
1.Administration
Except as specifical ly set forth herein, this Policy shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the 
“Administrator ”). The Administrator is authorized to interpret and construe this Policy and to make all determinations necessary,  
appropriate or advisable for the administration of this Policy and for the Company’s compliance with NYSE Rule, Section 10D,  
Rule 10D-1 and any other applicable law, regulation, rule or interpretation of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) 
or New York Stock  Exchange (“NYSE ”) promulgated or issued in connectio n therewith. Any determinations made by the 
Administrator shall be final and bindin g on all affected individuals and need not be uniform with respect to each individual  
covered by the Polic y. In the administration of this Policy, the Administrator is authorized and directed to consult with the full 
Board or such other  committees of the Board, such as the Audit Committee, as may be necessary or appropriate as to matters  
within the scope of such other committee’s responsibility and authority. Subject to any limitation under applicable law, the 
Administrator may authorize and empower any officer or employee of the Company to take any and all actions necessary or 
appropriate to carry out the purpose and intent of this Policy (other than with respect to any recovery under this Policy involving  
such officer or employee).
2.Definitions
As used in this Policy, the following definitions shall apply:
•“Accounting Restatement ” means an accounting restatement of the Company’s financial statements due to the 
Company’s material  noncompliance with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, including any 
required accounting restatement to correct an error in previously issued financial statements that is material to the 
previously issued financial statements (commonly referred to as a “Big R” restatement), or that would result in a material  
misstatement if the error were correcte d in the current period or left uncorrected in the current period (commonly  
referred to as a “little r” restatement). For avoidance of doubt, an out-of-period  adjustment when the error is immaterial  
to the previously issued financial statem ents, and the correction of the error is also immaterial to the current period shall  
not constitute an “Accounting Restatement.”

 
 - 2 -•“Applicable Period ” means, with respect to any Accountin g Restatement, the three completed fiscal years immediately  
preceding the date on which the Company is required to prepare an Accountin g Restatement, as well as any transition  
period (that results from a change in the Company’s fiscal year) within or immediately following those three completed  
fiscal years (except that a transition period that comprises a period of at least nine months shall count as a completed  
fiscal year). The “date on which the Company is required to prepare an Accounting Restatement” is the earlier to occur  
of (a) the date the Board , a committee of the Board, or the officer or officers of the Company authorized to take such 
action if Board actio n is not required conclude, or reasonably should have concluded, that the Company is required to 
prepare an Accounting Restatement or (b) the date a court, regulator or other legally authorized body directs the 
Company to prepare an Accounting Restatement, in each case regardless of if or when the restated financial statements  
are filed.
•“Covered Executives ” means the Compa ny’s current and former executive officers, as determined by the Administrator  
in accordance with the definition of “executive officer” set forth in Rule 10D-1 and the NYSE Rule.
•“Effective Date ” means October 2, 2023, the effective date of the NYSE Rule.
•A “Financial Reporting Measure ” is any measure that is determined and presented in accordance with the accounting  
principles used in preparing the Company’s financial statements, and any measure that is derived wholly or in part from  
such measure. Financial Reporting Measures include but are not limited to the following (and any measures derived
from the following): Company stock price; total shareholder return (“TSR”); revenues; net income; operating income;  
profitability of one or more  business  segments; financial ratios (e.g., accounts  receivable turnover and inventory  
turnover rates); earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA ”) and adjusted EBITDA; funds  
from operations and adjusted funds from operations; liquidity measures (e.g., working capital, operating cash flow);  
return measures ( e.g., return on capital, return on assets); earnings measures ( e.g., earnings per diluted share and adjusted  
earnings per diluted share); cost per employee, where cost is subject to an Accou nting Restatement; any of such financial  
reporting measures relative to a peer group, where the Company’s financial reporting measure is subject to an 
Accounting Restate ment; and tax basis income. A Financial Reporting Measure need not be presented within the 
Company’s financial statements or included in a filing with the SEC.
•“Incentive-Based Compensation ” means any compensation that is granted, earned or vested based wholly or in part upon  
the attainment of a Financial Reporting Measure. Incentive-Based Compensation is “received ” for purposes of this 
Policy in the Comp any’s fiscal period during which the Financial Reporting Measure specified in the Incentive-Based  
Compensation award is attained, even if the payment or grant of such Incentive-Based Compensation occurs after the 
end of that period. Base salaries, bonuses or equity awards paid solely upon satisfying one or more subjective standards,  
strategic or operational measures, or continued employment are not considered incentive ‐ based compensation, unless the 
awards were granted, paid or vested based in part on a Financial Reporting Measure.

 
 - 3 -3.Mandatory Recovery Pursuant to Rule 10D-1 and NYSE Rule
(a)Covered Executives; Incentive-Based Compensation
This Polic y applies to Incentive-Based Compensation received by a Covered Executive (i) on or after the Effective Date, (ii) 
after beginning services as a Covered Executive; (iii) if that person served as a Covered Executive at any time during the 
performance period for such Incentive-B ased Compensation; (iv) while the Company had a listed class of securities on a national  
securities exchange or a national securities association; and (v) during the Applicable Period (the “Clawback Eligible Incentive-
Based Compensation ”). Recovery of compensation is not required (A) with respect to any comp ensation received while an 
individual was serving in a non-executive capacity prior to becoming a  Covered Executive or (B) from any individual who is a  
Covered Executive on the date on which the Company is required to prepare  an Accounting Restatement but who was not a 
Covered Executive at any time during the performance period for which the Incentive-Based Compensation is received. For 
example, if an individual serving as a Covered Executive at the date that the Company is required to prepare an Accounting  
Restatement was not an executive officer at any time during a performance period that ended during the Applicable Period,  
amounts of incentive compensation received by that individual for that specific performance period are not required to be 
recovered.
(b)Required Recoupment of Erroneously Awarded Compensation in the Event of an Accounting Restatement
In the even t the Company is required to prepare an Accounting Restatement, the Company shall reasonably promptly recoup  
the amount of any “Erroneously Awarded Compensation” (as defined below) received by any Covered Executive, as calculated  
pursuant to Section 3(c)  hereof, during the Applicable Period.  
(c)Erroneously Awarded Compensation: Amount Subject to Recovery
The amount of “Erroneously Awarded Compensation ” subject to recover y under the Policy,  with respect to each Covered  
Executive in connection with an Accou nting Restatement, as determined by the Administrator, is the amount of the Clawback  
Eligible Incentive-Based Compensation received by such Covered Executive that exceeds the amount of Incentive-Based  
Compensation that would have been received by the Covered Executive had it been determined based on the restated amounts.   
In the event the Company is required to prepare an Accounting Restatement, the Administrator shall determine the amount of 
any Erroneously Awarded Compensation received by each effected Covered Executive in accordance with this Policy and shall  
promptly notify each effected Covered Executive with a written notice containing the amount of any Erroneously Awarded  
Compensation and a demand for repayment or return of such compensation, as applicable. Erroneously Awarded Compensation  
shall be computed by the Administrator without regard to any taxes that may have been incurred or paid by the Covered  
Executive in respect of the Erroneously Awarded Compensation. For the avoidance of doubt, recovery of Erroneously Awarded  
Compensation pursuant to this Policy is on a “no fault” basis, meaning that it will occur regardless of whether the Covered  
Executive engaged in misconduct or was otherwise directly or indirectly responsible, in  

 
 - 4 -whole or in part, for the Accounting Restatement. By way of example, with respect to any compensation plans or programs that 
take into account Incentive-Based Compensation, the amount of Erroneous ly Awarded Compensation subject to recovery  
hereunder includes,  but is not limited to, the amount contributed to any notional account based on Erroneously Awarded  
Compensation and any earnings accrued to date on that notional amount.
For Incentive-Based Compensation based on (or derived from) stock price or TSR, where the amount of Erroneously  
Awarded Compensation is not subject to mathematical recalculation directly from the information in the applicable Accounting  
Restatement: (i) the Administrator shall determine the amount of Erroneously  Awarded Compensation based on a reasonable  
estimate of the effect of the Accounting Restatement on the stock price or TSR upon which the Incentive-Based Compensation  
was receiv ed; and (ii) the Company shall maintain documentation of the determination of that reasonable estimate and provide  
such documentation to the NYSE.
(d)Method of Recoupment
The Administrator shall determine, in its sole discretion, the appropriate method for reasonably promptly recouping  
Erroneously Awarded Compensation hereunder, which may include without limitation (i) seeking reimbursement of all or part of 
any cash or equity-based award, (ii) cancelling prior cash or equity-based award s, whether vested or unvested or paid or unpaid,  
(iii) cancelling or offsetting against any planned future cash or equity-based awards, (iv) forfeiture of deferred compensation,  
subject to complianc e with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder and (v) any 
other method authorized by applicable law or contract. Subject to compliance with any applicable law, the Administrator may 
affect recovery under this Policy from any amount otherwise payable to the Covered Executive, including amounts payable to 
such individual under any otherwise applicable Company plan or program, including base salary, bonuses or commissions and 
compensation previously deferred by the Covered Executive. Notwithstanding the foregoing, subject to the exceptions set forth in 
Section 3(e) below, in no even t may the Company accept an amount that is less than the amount of Erroneously Awarded  
Compensation in satisfaction of a Covered Executive’s obligations under this Policy. To the extent that a Covered Executive fails 
to repay all Erroneously Awarded Compensation to the Company when due, the Company shall, and shall cause one or more of 
its subsidiaries to, take all actions reasonable and appropriate to recover such Erroneously Awarded Compensation from the 
applicable Covered Executive. The applicable Covered Executive shall be required to reimburse the Company and its subsidiaries  
for any and all expe nses reasonably incurred (including legal fees) by the Com pany of any of its subsidiaries in recovering such 
Erroneously Awarded Compensation in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence.
(e)Limited Exceptions to Mandatory Recovery
The Company is authorized and direc ted pursuant to this Section 3 to recoup Erroneously Awarded Compensation in 
compliance with this Policy unless the Administrator has determined that recovery would be impracticable solely for the 
following limited reasons, and subject to the following procedural and disclosure requirements:
•The direct expense paid to a third party to assist in enforcing the Policy would exceed the amount to be recovered.  
Before concluding that it would be impracticable to recover any  

 
 - 5 -amount of Erroneously Awarded Com pensation based on expense of enforcement, the Administrator must make a 
reasonable attempt to recover such erron eously awarded compensation, document such reasonable attempt(s) to recover  
and provide that documentation to NYSE; or
•Recovery would likely cause an otherwise tax-qualified retirement plan, under which benefits are broadly available to 
employees of the Company, to fail to meet the requirements of 26 U.S.C. 401(a)(13) or 26 U.S.C. 411(a), as amended,  
and regulations thereunder.
(f)No Indemnification of Covered Executives
Notwithstanding the terms of any indemnification or insurance policy or any contractual arrangement with any Covered  
Executive that may be interpreted to the contrary, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries shall insure or indemnify any 
Covered Executives against (i) the loss of any Erroneously Awarded Compensa tion that is repaid, returned or recovered pursuant  
to the terms of this Policy, or (ii) any claims relating to the Company’s enforcement of its rights under this Policy, including any 
payment or reimburs ement for the cost of third-party insurance purchased by any Covered Executives to fund potential clawback  
obligations under this Policy. Further, the Company and its subsidiaries shall  not enter into any agreement that exempts any 
Incentive-Based Com pensation that is granted, paid or awarded to any Covered Executive from the application of this Policy or 
that waive s the Company’s right to recovery of any Erroneously Awarded Compensation, and this Policy shall supersede any 
such agreement (whether entered into before, on or after the Effective Date of this Policy).
4.Administrator Indemnification
Any members of the Administrator, and any other members of the Board who assist in the administration of this Policy, shall  
not be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made  with respect to this Policy and shall be fully  
indemnified by the Company to the fullest extent under applicable law and Company policy with respect to any such action,  
determination or interpretation. The foregoing sentence shall not limit any other rights to indemnification of the members of the 
Board under applicable law or Company policy.
5.Effective Date; Retroactive Application
This Polic y shall be effective as of the Effective Date. The terms of this Policy shall apply to any Incentive-Based  
Compensation that is received by Covered Executives on or after the Effective Date, even if such Incentive-Based Compensation  
was approved, awarded, granted or paid to Covered Executives prior to the Effective Date.  
6.Amendment; Termination
Subject to the comp liance with applicable federal securities laws, Rule 10D-1 and the NYSE Rule, the Board may amend,  
modify, supplement, rescind or replace all or any portion of this Policy at any time and from time to time in its discretion, and 
shall amend this Policy as it deems necessary to comply with applicable law or any rules or standards adopted by SEC or NYSE.

 
 - 6 -7.Other Recoupment Rights; Company Claims
The Board intends that this Policy shall be applied to the fullest extent of the law. This Policy is in addition to the 
requirements of Section 304 of the Sarbanes ‐ Oxley Act of 2002, which shall continue to apply to the Company’s chief executive  
officer and chief financial officer who, in the event that the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the 
material noncomplia nce of the Company , as a result of misconduct, with any financial reporting requirement under the securities  
laws, shall reimburse the Company for any bonus or other incentive-based or equity-based compensation received by such person  
from the Company during the 12-month period following the first public issuan ce or filing with SEC (whichever first occurs) of 
the financial document embodying such financial reporting requirement, and any profits realized from the sale of securities of the 
Company during that 12-month period. Any right of recoupment under this Policy is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other  
remedies or rights of recoupment that may be available to the Company or any of its subsidiaries under applicable law or 
pursuant to the terms of any similar policy in any employment agreement , offer letter, compensation plan, equity award  
agreement, or similar agreement or arrangement, and any other legal remedies available to the Company or any of its subsidiaries  
under any other policy of the Company;  provided , however , that to the extent that the Covered Executive has already reimbursed  
the Company for any Erroneously Awarded Compensation received under any duplicative recovery obligations established by the  
Company or applicable law (including, without limitation, pursuant to Section 304 of the Sarbanes ‐ Oxley Act of 2002), it shall  
be appropriate for any such reimbursed  amount to be credited to the amount of Erroneously Awarded Compensation that is 
subject to recovery under this Policy. Any employment agreement, offer letter, compensation plan, equity award agreement, or 
any other agreemen t or arrangement with an Covered Executive (whether entered into before, on or after the Effective Date of 
this Policy ) shall be deemed to include , as a condition to the grant of any benefit thereunder, an agreement by the Covered  
Executive to abide by the terms of this Policy.
Nothing contained in this Policy, and no recoupment or recovery as contemplated by this Policy, shall limit or preclude any 
claims, damages or other legal remedies  the Company or any of its affiliates may have against a Covered Executive or any other  
person  arising out of or resulting from  any actions or omissions by the Covered Executive and any other actions that the 
Company may take, including termination of employment, institution of civil proceedings, or reporting of any misconduct to 
appropriate government authorities.   
8.Successors
This Policy shall be binding and enforceable against all Covered Executives and, to the extent required by applicable law or 
guidance from the SEC or NYSE, their beneficiaries, heirs, executors, administrators or other legal representatives.
9.Disclosure Requirement
A copy of this Policy and any amendments thereto shall be filed as an exhibit to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K  
and the Company shall comply with the disclosure, documentation and records requirements related to this Policy under Section  
10D of the Exchange Act, Rule 10D-1, applicable listing rules of NYSE and applicable SEC filings.

 
 - 7 - [TO BE SIGNED BY THE COMPANY’S EXECUTIVE OFFICERS:]
Clawback Policy Acknowledgment
I, the undersigned, agree and acknowledge that I have received and read the attached Clawback Policy of Universal Health  
Services, Inc. (as may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the “Policy ”), and I am fully  
bound by, and subject to, all of the terms and conditions of the Policy. In the event of any inconsistency between the Policy and 
the terms of any employment agreemen t to which I am a party, or the terms of any compensation plan, program or agreement  
under which any compensation has been  granted, awarded, earned or paid, the terms of the Policy shall govern. In the event it is 
determined by the Administrator that any amounts granted, awarded, earned or paid to me must be forfeited or reimbursed to the 
Company, I will promptly take any action necessary to effectuate such forfeiture and/or reimbursement. Any capitalized terms  
used in this Acknowledgment without definition shall have the meaning set forth in the Policy.
By:  
[Name] [Date]
[Title]  
 
 



